The Project Gutenberg eBook of The girl from Bodies, Inc
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The girl from Bodies, Inc

Author: Len Spencer

Illustrator: Virgil Finlay

Release date: May 3, 2024 [eBook #73523]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, 1956

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIRL FROM BODIES, INC ***





                      THE GIRL FROM BODIES, INC.

                         By LEONARD G. SPENCER

    _It's a darned shame that just when we get past the experimental
    stage and learn how to have fun, the old body starts wearing out.
    Now what if there were spare parts for sale? What if you could get
    them installed on demand? A new heart, a new liver, a new--well,
    just suppose!_

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                        Fantastic October 1956.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


"The trouble with bodies," said the new rub-down specialist at the
Gotham Baths, "is that after a while they just wear out."

"Glmph," said Hugh Horner as the skin-sleeking oil was applied
liberally to his face, making a drawn-out reply impossible.

"Ain't it funny, though," the rub-downer said, "how you can buy a new
set of piston rings for your car or a mainspring for your wristwatch or
a new gizmo for the old lady's mix-master, but you can't even buy a new
appendix, if you should need one, for yourself."

The quick hands left Horner's face and began to knead the sagging
muscles in his pectoral region. "If you look at it that way," Horner
said, "you have a point." He was alone in the massage room with the
attendant. He felt worn and drained out, as he always did at the end of
a heavy week's work at the office. A steam bath and a massage helped,
but he had to admit it: he wasn't as young as he used to be.

"Of course I have a point, Mr. Horner," said the attendant. "Folks
spent all that money on machines, what I mean, and almost nothing
on themselves. Tell me what happens when a guy develops a bad
ticker--Wait, I'll tell you what happens. He sits somewhere in a soft
chair, on a porch maybe, sucking on a dry pipe and waiting for the next
attack, which will probably kill him."

"I've heard pleasanter talk," Hugh Horner said in sudden distaste.

"What's the matter? Afraid of the truth?"

"Now really!" said Horner.

"How old are you, Mr. Horner? Forty-five?"

"I'm forty-seven," Horner admitted. His age, thus objectively stated
in his own voice, came as a mild shock. Forty-seven! He was virtually
middle-aged.

"Forty-seven! How many years before you change the car's battery?"

"Why, two or three, I guess."

"The tires?"

"Every twenty-five thousand miles. That would be about three years."

The attendant leaned down over him, still kneading the flesh of his
chest. "How much you got in the bank, Mr. H.?" he asked in a tight
whisper.

"I don't see where that's any business of yours," Horner replied in a
shocked voice.

"You get a car on time, it's the finance company's business, isn't it?
You take out a mortgage, it's the bank's business--right?"

"Yes, but--"

"How much, then?"

"Well, er, six thousand dollars."

"Joint account with your wife?"

"Y-yes."

"Happily married?"

"Now, just a minute!"

"Are you or aren't you?"

"Yes, I suppose so."

"You suppose so!"

"Yes, I'm happily married. Naturally, Jane isn't exactly the same girl
she was twenty years ago, when we were married. She's put on some
weight and she's got wrinkles and she's not exactly a sweater girl--"

"I see. Any children?"

"No, we were never blessed--"

"Blessed, is it? Well, that's good. No children. I think you'll do, Mr.
Horner."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Do? Do for what?"

"Congratulations, sir," the rub-down man said, smacking some oil on
Horner's abdomen and squashing the flesh around to show Horner how soft
he'd become.

Horner said, "Say, what happened to George, anyway." George was
Horner's usual attendant at the Gotham Baths.

"George wised up. He's out getting a body job."

"Oh, something happen to George's car?"

"Not his car."

"I'm afraid I don't understand."

"He's getting a body job," said the attendant. "He's getting a new
body."

The hands went slap-slap against Horner's abdomen. He could hear the
attendant's heavy, regular breathing. "Ha-ha," he said. "You're pulling
my leg."

"I just now explained--"

"You said George was out getting a new body. That's a joke, isn't it?"

"It's no joke to George. It's costing him four thousand dollars, all
the money he has. But he thinks it's worth it. Wouldn't you?"

"A new, er, body, you mean?"

"Yes. To start life at age twenty-five again, aware of all your
mistakes, your short-comings, your--"

"All right," Horner said finally, "that's enough. I've been lying here
and listening because I've had no choice, understand? But you've worn
that joke out, fellow. I wish you'd stop."

       *       *       *       *       *

The masseur mumbled something under his breath, then said, "Well, that
does it on the front side. Care to roll over?"

"Yes," said Horner dutifully, and did so. He thought: funny, the way
this bird delivered that new body pitch. Such a straight face. So
utterly serious, almost as if he were interviewing me. The silence
stretched. Horner regretted having asked the attendant to stop his yarn
about new bodies. He finally said, in defeat, "Er, about what you were
saying--"

"You want an appointment? That's what I'm here for."

"An appointment? With whom?"

The attendant wiped his hands on a large towel and tossed its twin to
Horner. From somewhere, he plucked a neat white business card and gave
it to Horner. The card said:

BODIES, INC. _By appointment only._

There was a telephone number and an address out on Long Island. There
was nothing else.

"Three thousand is what it will cost you," the attendant said. "You're
lucky it's a joint account you have."

"Three thousand dollars!" gasped Horner. "For what?"

"For a new body, naturally. Twenty-five years old and in sound health.
Fit as a pin, you're guaranteed that. I think it's a bargain."

"But three thousand dollars--"

"What kind of car you drive?"

Horner told him.

"Buy it brand new?"

"I never buy second-hand cars," Horner told him haughtily.

"Then it cost you damn near as much as a new body is going to. What are
you complaining about?"

Horner clucked an answer and then was told he could go to the locker
room and climb into his clothing. He tipped the usual fifty cents,
showered, dressed in his street clothing. He did all this, trying not
to think about what he had heard--but the more he tried not to think
about it, the more he did think about it.

Calling himself a fool, he returned to the massaging rooms. He poked
his head inside the room in which the new man had given him a rub-down.

An attendant with a stocky build and shell-rimmed glasses stared out at
him, squinted myopically, and smiled. "Evening, Mr. Horner," he said.

It was George, who had given Horner his weekly massage every week for
the past five years--except tonight.

"Why, you're here!" blurted Horner.

"Sure am, sir. Wondered why you were late. Go ahead and undress, now.
I'll reserve your usual table...."

"But I just had my massage."

"Oh?" said George, trying to make his voice sound indifferent. "Trying
one of the other masseurs?"

"Not at all," snapped Horner. "You weren't here. Well, were you?"

"Never even stepped out. Been here all night," George said.

"But the other man, the new man--"

"No new man, Mr. Horner, sir. Haven't put on a new man in six-seven
months. I'd know, wouldn't I?"

"You'd know," said Horner slowly, after a silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Something the matter, sir?"

"It's nothing. Nothing."

Horner got out of there very quickly. He took a cab home, which was
unusual for him. If George and his nameless friend had been playing an
elaborate practical joke, they had also been playing hob with Horner's
digestion. For now a hot sensation flooded his middle--his damned ulcer
acting up. Ulcers, he thought with a sudden wry smile, ulcers and what
else? You're forty-seven, Horner. A mildly successful life, a good
marriage, a middling business, no children, no outstanding debts--any
regrets?

Yes, Horner thought. Regrets. His ulcer was a regret. He had to be
careful what he ate, couldn't drink much. His rising blood pressure
would one day be a regret, even if it wasn't yet. And generally,
vaguely, his insignificance was a regret. He was not a meek man, but
he was no Tarzan of the Apes. He was not a small man, but he was no
Goliath. He was not a low-brow, but he was no Einstein. He was not
without an eye and some appeal for women, but he was no Don Juan. He
sighed, knowing you could extend the list indefinitely. Hugh Horner,
small businessman. Hugh Horner, small man.

"Here's your address, Mac," the cab driver said.

Horner got up with a start. He realized he had been sitting there for
some time with the cab perfectly still. He somehow sensed that time
had passed, more time than the thirty-odd minutes it would take a cab
to deliver him to his home on the other side of the Brooklyn-Battery
Tunnel.

"Where--where are we?" he asked the cabbie. For some reason, he
fingered the business card in his pocket. The one the new masseur, the
masseur who apparently did not exist, had given him.

The cabbie, shrugging, told him an address which was not immediately
familiar. Then, with a sudden quickening of his heart, Horner realized
it was the address on the business card in his pocket.

"You mean," Horner demanded, "we're on Long Island? I don't remember
telling you to take me here."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, I didn't dream it up myself, Mac," the cabbie said. "Look, I
don't care if you get out or you don't get out. The flag is still down
and I'm still making money. So, what'll it be?"

"I ought to call my wife," Horner said.

The driver shrugged. "You getting off here?"

Slowly, Horner nodded. He looked outside. He saw night darkness, a
dimly lit driveway, a hemlock hedge twelve feet high.

"Sign said 'Positively no vehicles,'" the cabbie told him. "So I guess
you walk from here."

"I guess I walk," Horner said. He consulted the taxi meter, took four
dollar bills from his money clip and a half dollar in change from his
pocket. Then he got out.

The cab door closed. The driver put the clutch down, then up, and
the cab rolled away into the darkness. Horner lit a cigarette. It
tasted harsh and bitter, stale. The darkness engulfed him and a pulse
hammered, of all places, in his right leg. He felt all at once old--or
at least aging. He sighed and it was not a sound a young man would
make. In the darkness on the unknown road, he longed for his youth, his
lost youth. Then he walked resolutely up the dimly lit driveway flanked
by the high hemlock hedge.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door-knocker was brass, and Horner let it fall. It made a
resounding noise and the door opened within a second, as if someone
were standing half a foot away on the other side with no job but to
admit Hugh Horner the instant he knocked.

"Come in, Mr. Horner," the girl said. "Naturally, we were expecting
you."

She was tall and she wore a cashmere sweater, loose but not so loose
that it failed to reveal high, maidenly breasts. She wore a skirt not
provocatively tight, but tight enough to suggest the good thighs that
she had. Her hair fell almost to her shoulders in abundant auburn
waves. She had a lovely face and Horner thought she was about twenty
years old.

"You were expecting me?" Horner said.

"Of course. You see, _Bodies, Inc._ carefully screens its
applicants...."

"But I didn't apply!"

"Ah, but we knew you were going to. We have to be sure of our clients.
Because if a single client decided to talk, we'd be out of business."

"The authorities?"

"Certainly. But since you're here, we can get down to business at once.
You have the three thousand dollars with you?"

"Why, no. No, I don't."

"Bankbook?"

"Yes, I have that."

"It's good enough. Tomorrow we can take your identification papers,
driving license and so forth, and get the money ourselves. That is,
unless they know you personally at the bank?"

Horner said that he did his banking by mail. He supposed they were
going to forge his signature, but made no comment because he had
decided, all at once, to call the whole thing off.

"See here," he said. "This is a little awkward. But you can trust me
not to talk."

"What's a little awkward?"

"I--I've decided not to go through with it," Horner said lamely. "My
wife, my friends...."

The girl said nothing. She took two steps forward, placed her arms
around Horner, and kissed him. She wore a subtle perfume. She was
beautiful. Her lips were soft and warm, inviting. Her lips were hot.
Her lips burned....

Horner broke away breathlessly. His heart was pounding. He knew his
face was flushed, he could feel it. His legs were unsteady. He wanted
to respond, but his energies were dissipating in the hard-pumping
heart, the trembling limbs, the flushed face. It was a middle-aged
response. It lacked the drive and direction of youth.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Did you like that?" the girl asked, taking one of Horner's hands and
holding it.

"Yes," came his breathless reply. "Oh, yes! I liked it."

"But you didn't...."

"Respond? I have a wife."

"That wasn't the reason."

"We're happily married!"

"And I like this sweater I'm wearing very much, but I have others and
will wear others."

"The mores of our society...."

"Mores baloney! You were just plain scared. Middle-aged scared. Look at
you. You're soft and you're getting wrinkles. Do you think I was really
attracted to you? Do you think that's why I kissed you? No, you fool.
That wasn't the reason."

"Then you...."

"Wanted to make this point. Wanted to show you you're old, too old to
enjoy the most obvious pleasures of a younger man's life. Twenty-five,
Mr. Horner! That's the age! The age not of boyishness but of mature
youth! Twenty-five! The perfect age for you, and you know it." She
smiled at him. It was a deliberately sexy smile, a come-on, an
invitation which Horner, under the circumstances, had to decline. "Are
you convinced?" she said.

"That I'm not as young as I used to be? Of course."

She gave him a deliberately daughterly kiss, pecking at his temple with
her soft warm lips. "Then you're ready to go to the observation room."

The observation room, thought Horner. Did he do the observing, or was
he observed? He sighed. It was not a young man's way of expressing
what Hugh Horner felt. He knew it was not. He said slowly, bleakly,
"I'm ready for the observation room."

The girl did not even nod. She had known he would be ready all along.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a small, utterly bare room with three walls of dull gray metal
and the fourth of dazzling floor-to-ceiling glass. On the other side
of the glass was a similar room--except that it was furnished with a
single bench running across its length.

Men were seated on the bench. Young men, apparently staring at Horner
and his lovely companion.

"They can't see us," the girl explained. "One way glass."

"But do they, er, know why they are here?"

"Naturally. Everything's on the up-and-up with _Bodies, Inc._, morally
if not legally."

"And they are...."

"Your choice, Mr. Horner. As you can see, there are eight young men
in there, each twenty-five years old, each guaranteed in good health,
each perfectly willing to switch identities with you. I must tell you
in advance, however, that the switch is quite permanent. There is no
recourse. You understand?"

"Yes, but...." Horner looked at the eight men who could not see him,
and lapsed into silence. The eight all looked like sound specimens,
all right. All seemed healthy and alert, even cheerful. Horner said,
somewhat suspiciously, "My reason for wanting to switch places is
obvious. And theirs?"

[Illustration: It was a good body. It looked as though it would last
for years.]

The girl licked her lips before she spoke. They were very nice lips.
They were delicious lips. Horner had tasted them. He was suddenly
reminded of a magician who makes diverting passes with one hand while
performing his magic with the other. "Money," the girl said laconically.

"Money? But I'm only paying three thousand dollars. Surely a man
wouldn't surrender his youth for such a sum!"

"Our regulations call for a man's total savings. In your case, three
thousand dollars. But most of our clients are extremely wealthy, Mr.
Horner. Now, since half of the fee goes to the youth who will become
Hugh Horner while we keep the other half...."

"But fifteen hundred dollars only!"

"I should have said it goes into a pool. A yearly pool, you see. The
average last year was four-hundred sixty-five thousand dollars, Mr.
Horner. Don't you think some young men would be willing to surrender
twenty years of their lives for half a million dollars?"

"I wouldn't if I were young," Horner said at once.

"Between you and me, that's because you aren't. But it's their choice
to make, and it's a free choice. Now, have you made a selection?"

Horner looked at the eight men again, and shrugged.

"I see," the girl said. "And I agree. They're all choice specimens,
is that what you're thinking? All strong, all healthy, and all will
probably be in better shape than you are, twenty years from now."

"Do I get some kind of a guarantee on their health? I mean, what if ...
if I should pick one of them with an incurable disease or something?"
Although he asked this very practical question, Horner still hardly
expected to go through with anything as incredible as switching bodies
with one of the young men on the other side of the glass partition.
After all, he told himself for the tenth time, such things just weren't
possible. This was either an elaborate joke or an elaborate dream.
He decided--hopefully--that it was the latter. He recalled that the
doctor had given him reserprine to calm his nerves recently, and the
doctor had told him that one of the side effects of reserprine was an
abundance of nightmare.

"That's it," he said. "Reserprine."

"What did you say?" the girl asked him, an amused look on her face.

"Er, I said, that one's fine," Horner blurted, pointing at random at
one of the men on the other side of the glass partition.

"Good," the girl said. "Then everything is ready." She touched a
section of the wall and the dazzling glass sheet abruptly went opaque.
This lasted for some five seconds, then the wall became transparent
again.

       *       *       *       *       *

All but one of the men had disappeared. Horner assumed it was the
individual he had singled out quite at random.

"Now really ..." he began.

"Look at me," the girl said.

That was easy. She was beautiful.

Her eyes grew very large. Incredibly large. They filled her entire
head. They filled the room. They were two enormous blue pits. Horner
jumped into both of them just before he fell into a deep hypnotic sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

His hands were raw and bleeding. His first thought was that the guards
would know something was wrong when they saw his hands. He was down on
his knees in foul-smelling dirt, but his head scraped the low ceiling.
He was digging mechanically with his bare hands. He had had a shovel,
but it had been lost in a slight cave-in.

"Hey, Lonnie!" a harsh whispering voice called. "Stop dreaming, for
cryin' out loud. If we don't do it tonight, we'll never get another
chance. Forbish is out."

"What do you mean he's out?" called back Horner, whose name now seemed
to be Lonnie.

"You know what I mean. Out. Another cell-block. Forbish got a mouth
like the Holland Tunnel. What I mean, if he ain't here to cash in on
the deal, he's gonna spill it. And fast. How you comin'?"

"I'm digging," Horner responded. "I'm digging ... and digging." He was
doing that, all right. The work should have been tremendously tiring,
should have exhausted Hugh Horner in his run-down forty-seven-year-old
body. But he found it almost exhilarating. He looked at his hands.
Dirty hands, and bloody. But large--larger than they should have been.
Horner had had small hands, almost delicate hands. He dug and dug,
thinking.

Either it was another reserprine dream--or he wasn't Hugh Horner.

Then was he the man whom he'd selected--more or less at random? But
that wasn't possible, for the man in question had been in the _Bodies,
Inc._ establishment on Long Island--unless, somehow, that had merely
been a projected image of the man, like three-dimensional television.
Then ... where was he?

"Want me to take over, Lonnie?" demanded the harsh whisper. For the
first time, Horner realized that it was not close by. It was a loud
whisper and it came from a considerable ways off. Wanting time to
think, Horner said, "Yes. All right."

He backed out of the tunnel slowly, awkwardly, his body stiff. Stiff,
but not painful. Hugh Horner's limbs would have ached terribly in this
cramped position, but Lonnie's did not. Lonnie scurried more rapidly
now--backwards and not minding it at all--out of the tunnel. The walls
of the tunnel, Horner observed, were of bare soft earth. If his elbows
or knees struck them, some of the earth sifted down, and sometimes a
rock. He had the sudden impression that the tunnel had been dug over a
considerable period of time with crude implements or by hand.

Finally, Horner emerged into a small square room. There were two bunks,
one over the other, he observed as he stood up. The walls were bare
plaster. There was a sink and a lidless toilet. There was a small
mirror. Only three of the walls were plaster. The fourth consisted of a
grim row of vertical bars.

