He was in a prison cell.

       *       *       *       *       *

He gazed about wildly. He wanted to scream. He didn't understand how
this could be, but understanding was decidedly secondary. He looked
at his bloody hands. It was his own blood--Lonnie's, that is--but it
was symbolic to him. A man was sitting on the edge of one of the
bunks, smoking. He was watching Horner. He was a short man with immense
shoulders. He wore gray denim and Horner did not have to be told it was
a prison uniform or that his clothing was identical.

Somehow, Horner had traded places--identities!--with a convict.

"'Samatter, Lonnie? What you staring at?"

"Nothing. Nothing, I guess." Horner went on staring. The other man's
name was Jake, he knew that all at once. He knew other things. Other
memories came flooding back ... not his memories. Lonnie's. Because
he was Lonnie now. His mind was numb. Numb. He was Lonnie--Lionel
Overman--and he was in jail on a twenty-to-life rap. His behavior,
the river of memory told him, had not been exemplary. It would not be
twenty years. It would be life.

"What--what am I in for?" he demanded in a soft voice, for that
particular memory would not come.

"You're kidding," the man named Jake said.

Horner went over to him and grabbed his denim shirt with
dirt-and-blood-caked hands. "I asked, what am I in for?"

"Hey, take it easy," Jake growled. "Don't get yourself in an uproar. We
got other things to think about."

"Tell me," Horner said grimly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jake looked at him. Jake had the widest shoulders Horner had ever seen.
Probably, Jake was incredibly strong. But his shoulders shrugged and
he said, "When you get like that, Lonnie, I guess you got to have your
way." He added one word. He added, "Murder."

"Murder," Horner said slowly.

"Hell, yeah, murder. Now snap out of it, will you?"

"Murder. Why didn't they electrocute me?"

"You was young at the time. Twenty, I think. Hey, what's the matter
with you? Will you leave go the shirt so I can go down there?"

"Yes," Horner said. "Yes, of course." There was more on the river of
memory now. There was Jake. And Lonnie Overman--Horner. And a man named
Forbish, another convict. For eighteen months they had been digging.

Digging.

The entrance of their tunnel was concealed behind the toilet. For
eighteen months they had kept a model cell and inspections had been
only cursory. Eighteen long months.

And tonight, according to the missing Forbish's calculations, they were
ready to strike paydirt. Which, naturally, would make Forbish very
bitter. Because now he wasn't with them. Forbish had been transferred
to another cell-block when the three-man cells had been converted to
two-man cells. Forbish was a bitter, brooding fellow to begin with.
Forbish might be bitter enough to spill everything.

"... Don't forget," Jake was saying. "We're close enough now. Forbish
knew what he was talking about. I hope to hell you can swim, Lonnie."

"I can swim."

"On account of the tunnel lets out near the river, remember? So, don't
forget. The guards come now, it'll probably be on account of Forbish
told them. The guards come now, don't bother giving me the signal. Just
come crawling in and we'll try to bust through. It got to be no more
than inches now. Ain't that right?"

Horner said it was right. Forbish, now departed, had been their tunnel
expert. The whole plan had been Forbish's, and now Forbish was deprived
of it. There was no telling what the bitter Forbish might do.

"Well, wish me luck, kid."

"Good luck," Horner said dutifully. Jake got down on hands and knees
and squirmed down behind the toilet and soon disappeared into the
tunnel.

Horner wanted to think. Desperately he wanted to think. But now his
stunned mind was a blank. The thoughts would not come. He sat there,
all but mindless.

And heard footsteps.

He shut his eyes. The bunk was hard, but not too hard. If he shut his
eyes and tried to think very hard of Hugh Horner and Hugh Horner's
life, pretty soon he would wake up and the nightmare would be over.

He shuddered. He was only fooling himself, he knew. This was no
reserprine dream. This was--incredibly--the real thing.

He heard footsteps.

He stood up, adrenalin coursing through his veins and making him feel
vital and alive and ready for anything. Footsteps meant the guard was
coming, but the gray light streaming in through the window told Horner
that it was barely dawn and there would be no reason for a guard to
come so purposefully in this direction unless Forbish had squealed.
So, if the guard came now, which seemed likely, the guard would come
seeking their tunnel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lonnie's and Jake's--not Horner's. Horner had had nothing to do with
it. No. Certainly not.

But Horner was going to serve Lonnie Overman's life-term in prison--for
murder. And Horner would be punished for the attempted escape.
Punishment? He was already serving a life-term. Solitary-confinement,
probably. He was innocent. He had done nothing, except wish for youth.
It wasn't fair, he told himself. It was terribly, tragically unfair. He
wanted his freedom.

"Hey you, Overman," the guard said. He stood outside the cell, holding
the bars. "I can't see so good in there. Where's Halrohan?"

Halrohan was Jake. "Sleeping," Horner said.

The guard scowled and squinted. "Bunk looks like it's empty," he said.

"The top bunk," said Horner.

"Can't see the top bunk," said the guard. He searched for his keys,
inserting the right one, turning the big tumblers.

Horner tensed. He had committed no murder. He had done nothing. He was
no criminal. He wanted his freedom but could not tell them, by the
way, I'm not who you think I am, I'm a fellow named Hugh Horner and I
never committed anything worse than a traffic violation in my life, so
please get me the hell out of here and give me back my old body, it's
all right, I don't mind being forty-seven years old. He could tell them
nothing like that. He could only do what Lonnie Overman was trying to
do, and try to do something later about this unexpected place-changing
with a convicted lifer.

He could only try to escape.

The heavy bars swung in, all but soundless on oiled hinges. The guard
swaggered into the cell, expecting nothing. He walked to the bunks,
peered at the upper one.

He reached for the whistle, lanyard-dangling from his neck. He got it
in his mouth and blew on it. It was the loudest sound Horner had ever
heard.

A second later, Horner grabbed the guard's shoulder and swung him
around and hit him.

Horner felt the numbness and pain of it to his elbow, but it had been
a good blow. Lonnie knew how to use his fists. The guard went down and
stayed down and Horner wondered how much time they would have until the
whistle brought help.

He scurried to the toilet and got down on hands and knees behind it,
crawling into their tunnel.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Forbish must have talked already," he called out, making his way on
hands and knees through the pitch-dark tunnel. The shaft was barely
wide enough to admit him and angled sharply several times where
Overman, Jake Halrohan and Forbish must have encountered large rocks.

Horner estimated the distance at fifty feet or more before he came up
against Jake's back. He had expected complete darkness here at the
nether end of the tunnel, but faint light seeped in from somewhere.

"Made it!" Jake cried hoarsely. "Listen to the river."

Horner heard it, a faint rushing of water. "The guards," he said. "I
took care of one, but not before he blew his whistle. We don't have
much time."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was not enough room for both of them to dig. Horner waited on
hands and knees while Jake clawed at the earth again with his fingers.
Soon Horner heard a pounding sound and realized Jake was using his
fists to enlarge the hole in the soft mucky ground.

"I'm squeezing through!" Jake finally cried, and Horner felt the
man's bulk ahead of him shift over to one side and then forward. A
moment later, Horner felt cool fresh air caress his cheek. He had not
realized how close and fetid it was in the tunnel until now. He sobbed,
breathing deeply of the night air. A wind stirred, and hard rain pelted
his face. For a few tormenting seconds his shoulders became wedged in
the opening, then he was through. Suddenly there was no footing and he
rolled over and over down a steep embankment, taking loose earth and
stones with him. He came to rest very close to the river. The water
sounds were much closer now.

"We made it, bucko," Jake said in a low, jubilant voice. "We made it."

Just then a siren wailed above them and the night gloom was punctuated
by a quick-swinging searchbeam. Horner looked up quickly, knew the
light would never spot them down here because of the hill. But the
tunnel was something else again. Armed guards could be expected through
the tunnel momentarily.

"Do we wait, or beat it?" Jake said hoarsely.

"What do you think?" Horner called over his shoulder as he got up
and bounded down to the river. The bank was steep here; he took four
splashing strides and had to swim. The water was icy, the current
swift. Horner took a look over his shoulder, saw Jake wading more
gingerly into the water as the mouth of the tunnel suddenly erupted in
a bright flash of light that illuminated everything.

"Stop or we'll shoot!" a voice cried, and Horner let the current take
him, his head twisted back so he could see. Jake, the fool, had not yet
allowed the water to take him. He was still standing, still floundering
uncertainly in the shallows, when the flashlight beam at the mouth of
the tunnel caught and held him.

"Stand perfectly still, you!"

Jake shouted a curse and splashed into deeper water.

He did not get far enough to swim. There were three explosive sounds
and three flashes of light brighter than the searchlight and Jake threw
his hands into the air, spun completely around and staggered back
toward the embankment. Shuddering in the cold, Horner kicked easily
with his legs. He'd already removed his shoes. He was careful that his
kicking did not break the surface. He changed to a safe underwater
scissor and a breaststroke, swimming silently, unseen. He was an
innocent man in a killer's body, but could never prove that. He had to
get away.

"There were two of them," a voice called behind him.

And another, louder: "You out there! Stop or we'll shoot!"

It was meant to scare him: they couldn't possibly see him.
Nevertheless, Horner's heart almost stopped when he heard a volley of
shots. Then, in the silence that followed, he felt a momentary sorrow
for Jake Halrohan, who was either dead or a prisoner again. But his
case and Halrohan's were different--Halrohan had been duly convicted
for some crime; Horner was innocent.

He swam, and grew gradually numb with cold. He became aware of a
stronger current, surrendered himself to it and was borne along. The
voices had faded behind him; there had been only the first volley
of fire, then silence. He could not judge how far he had gone, nor
did he know the geography in the vicinity of the state prison. In
all probability there would be a three-state alarm out for Lionel
Overman--which now meant for Horner. He had to hurry.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first false light of pre-dawn had faded. It was as dark now as the
middle of the night, but in half an hour daylight would come. Rain fell
in fitful squalls now; the rain seemed to be stopping. Horner had never
been so cold in his life. He thought hours had passed, but knew that
was impossible because dawn had not yet chased the night. He shivered
and broke for shore in an agonizingly slow crawl. He dragged himself
out of the water and lay there, gasping, panting, still shivering.
After a while he got up. The sullen sky seemed brighter across the
river now; dawn was coming. He had to get away. He had to get out of
his tell-tale prison denims before it was fully light or he would never
get out of them at all.

Very faintly he heard the wail of the prison siren. Slowly he walked up
the muddy embankment, then set out in a southerly direction. The rain
came down harder now, as if determined to make things as miserable for
Horner as it could. He came to a fence. It was barbed wire and it meant
people weren't far. He decided to climb the fence, parting the top two
strands and going through. He found himself in a pasture. Something
big and blocky loomed ahead--a barn. At least he could sleep there for
a few hours. He would be comparatively safe if he could find a place
up in the loft somewhere, but of course that would be delaying the
inevitable, for if he waited till night he would still be within siren
distance of the state prison.

He lifted the lock bar cautiously and let the big barn door swing out.
There was a faint protest of rusted metal and Horner allowed a full two
minutes to pass before he went inside. The cattle smell was strong.
A cow lowed uncertainly off to his left, but he could see nothing.
He passed a smaller door, not meant for cattle, and the smaller door
was not locked. He smiled as it swung on its rusty hinges in the rain
and the wind. If anyone was about, that would explain the other hinge
noise. Meanwhile, Horner was ravenously hungry. He would eat anything,
even cattlefeed.... He stumbled suddenly, reaching out awkwardly to
right himself. A bucket clanged against wood, and he froze.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, not ten feet above Horner's head, a sleepy girl's voice said, "Go
back to sleep, will you, Caleb honey? It wasn't nothin'."

"I heard someone down there."

"It wasn't nothin', Caleb honey," the girl repeated. "One of the cows
kicked inter somethin', is all. Put your arm back around me Caleb love,
there Caleb, ah Caleb."

"I still thought. I--"

"Caleb. I swear, boy, what is the matter with you! My old man will be
up an' to the barn a few minutes fum now an' all you can do is talk.
Caleb Wilson if you don't ... ah...."

The gloom inside the barn was less complete than it had been outside,
only moments ago. Rain drummed on the roof as Horner groped slowly
forward, found the foot of a ladder which probably went up to the loft.
The boy named Caleb and the farm girl were up there and, from the
tone of their conversation, probably undressed. Horner needed Caleb's
clothing. He wondered for a moment if it would be tell-tale farm
clothing, a pair of jeans and a flannel shirt, perhaps. He couldn't
get very far in New York with that, not when an alarm was out for an
escaped convict. But if Caleb had come a-courting in his Sunday best....

The sounds above his head made Horner blush furiously as he mounted the
ladder one slow rung at a time. The wood creaked and Horner froze, but
the sounds of love did not abate. Horner could see blacks and grays
now, charcoals--but no pale grays and whites of day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly, he was in the loft. He stood there, wanting to breathe
hard but barely daring to breathe at all. From the sound of _their_
breathing, Caleb and the girl had abandoned themselves completely. Hay
crunched underfoot, and Horner froze in his tracks, crouched there.
But Caleb and the girl were beyond hearing. He could not see them: he
was very glad that this was so. His sense of privacy had already been
violated in a shocking fashion, both from their point of view and from
his.

They made animal sounds. Blood flooded Horner's face again. The hell
with it, he finally decided. They sounded happy enough, at any event.
He got down on hands and knees and groped for Caleb's clothing.

With one hand he found the clothing. With the other he struck something
warm and slightly yielding. Again, he froze.

"Caleb! How'd you get down there?"

"Down where?"

"My foot."

"I ain't down there."

"Caleb!" The foot explored Horner's arm, his shoulder. The foot drew
away as if Horner were flame. "Caleb," the voice was shocked. "Caleb, I
think it's somebody."

There was a gasp, a stirring, a creaking of wood and a crunching of
hay. Horner remained in a motionless crouch, one hand still gripping
the pile of clothing. He was aware of a dim shape as Caleb got up. He
wondered if Caleb could see him crouched there and decided that for the
moment he could not.

When Caleb was very close, when he would have stepped on Horner had
he advanced another two strides, Horner flung the pile of clothes in
his face and propelled himself forward head-first. His head struck
Caleb's belly as he hoped it would and the air rushed out of Caleb and
the farmboy did a jackknife over Horner's shoulder. Horner backed away
quickly and hit Caleb as he went down. He was not happy about that, but
he had to make sure. He connected twice with Caleb's face.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Daddy!" the girl demanded in a choking sob. It was half question and
half frightened guess. She didn't raise her voice, though. And she
would not raise her voice, on the chance that it was not Daddy and
Daddy, maybe, would not hear. Because she was as much afraid of Daddy
finding her here with Caleb as she was afraid of Horner.

"Just be quiet and you won't get hurt," Horner whispered.

"Who are you?"

Instead of answering, Horner commenced stripping off his prison
denims. He changed into Caleb's clothing while the girl administered
to her lover, stroking him and cooing at him in the growing light.
Horner could see the clothing now: it was shirt and loud tie and
farm-catalogue suit and while Horner never would have picked these
particular items for himself out of choice, they would get by in New
York without too many second glances.

"Got a car?" Horner asked.

"Daddy has a--"

"I mean Caleb."

"Y-yes, sir. He come in a pick-up truck."

"Where are the keys?" Horner asked.

"But you ain't a-takin'--"

"Where are the keys?"

"You're wearin' them in your left-hand pocket, I think."

Horner checked the pocket. The keys were there.

"Where's the truck?" he asked.

"Round behind the barn. You take the lane there over to the fence. On
t' other side of the fence, but it's Caleb's uncle's truck, mister. I
swear, he'll tan Caleb's hide if you--"

"Well," said Horner righteously, and then felt foolish, "he ought to."

Then he heard Caleb sighing, knew the boy would be all right. He also
knew that he would be safe in the pick-up truck for at least an hour or
so. For the girl wouldn't dare tell her father, at dawn, coming from
the barn, that Caleb's pick-up truck had been stolen. And even Caleb
had a problem. Apparently it was some distance back to his uncle's
farm--and there was still the problem of accounting for his absence in
the night.

Horner went down the ladder quickly, and out of the barn. It was still
raining outside, but dawn light had finally come. Abruptly, Horner
flattened himself against the wall of the barn. He'd heard something.
Footsteps squelching through the mucky pasture. A big burly man went by
and Horner waited ten seconds before he dared to move again. Then he
found the lane behind the barn and marched along through the mud until
he reached the three strands of the barbed wire fence, parted them and
went through. He had come several hundred yards and now saw the truck
ahead of him. He wondered if he dared start the engine with the farmer
so close. He decided he had to chance it, swinging up into the truck
and inserting the key in the ignition.

Moments later, he was driving through the rain. The lane took him to
a two-lane blacktop which led to a concrete highway heading south for
the city. Grimly, Horner clung to the wheel. It was still quite early
and almost no traffic was on the road. Horner expected pursuit almost
momentarily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miraculously, he was in Brooklyn. He still couldn't believe it. He
had driven the pick-up truck down through the rain to the northern
outskirts of the Bronx, where he'd parked it near a subway station. A
series of subway rides had brought him through the Bronx and Manhattan
to Brooklyn, where he lived with Jane. He thought his trail was covered
quite well. There was something hearteningly anonymous about a subway
passenger.

The rain had stopped. The time, on a bank clock, was quarter past
eleven. The bank was around the corner from where the Hugh Horner
lived. Horner's steps became swifter: he had already decided to see
his wife. Jane must have been frantic, he told himself. Naturally,
Horner couldn't just barge in on a wife now apparently twice his age
and announce himself. In the first place, she wouldn't believe him. In
the second, there would be the element of shock. In the third, he was
still wanted by the police--as Lonnie Overman.

Horner shrugged. He would _have to_ barge in on her. He had to get off
the streets, or sooner or later he would be spotted as the escaped
convict. Every couple married twenty years, and moderately happy,
Horner told himself, had certain shared secrets. Given time and the
opportunity, he could prove his identity to Jane beyond the shadow of a
doubt, new body or not.

He reached their apartment building and went into the lobby. He stood
there longer than was necessary, for the self-service elevator had
already come down. He studied his reflection in the lobby mirror. The
clothing was a pretty good fit, but the suit was a cheap sharkskin in
a loud plaid, and the tie was a clashing polka-dotted affair. You look
just great, Horner told his reflection. But he had to admit he was
not really sorry. He was young again, strong and healthy, and not bad
looking in a dashing, devil-may-care way. Despite Lonnie Overman's
troubles, the face was one used to smiling. Horner could see that. It
was a strong-looking face and the eyes, which Horner had expected to
be furtive, were frank and bold. The furtive look, then, belonged to
Overman's personality and Overman's personality no longer inhabited
Overman's body.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever happened, Horner was suddenly determined to keep this good,
sound, healthy body. A lifer in prison, Overman did not need it.
Whereas Horner....

He shut the thoughts off. There was no predicting the future, no sense
raising his hopes, only to have them dashed, sundered, when the law
overtook him. He entered the elevator, went up to the fourth floor,
walked uncertainly along the hallway. Suddenly, he was frightened.
Could he explain the situation to Jane? It hardly seemed likely. It was
asking a lot of anyone. How could Jane believe the wild story he would
tell her? How could he...?

Horner shrugged, and jabbed a finger against the bell-button. He
waited a few seconds, hearing no response inside the apartment. Perhaps
Jane was out. Perhaps, even now, she was down at the police station,
tearfully describing Horner to the policemen on duty. "But officer,
I can't imagine _what_ could have happened to him. He was always so
punctual...." All at once the door opened.

Standing there staring at Horner was--Hugh Horner!

       *       *       *       *       *

Horner's first impulse was to run. What could he explain to Jane now?
Whatever he tried was doomed to failure by the simple presence of the
other Hugh Horner--of the convict, Lionel Overman, in Horner's body,
he now realized. He should have expected it. Overman and the other
seven men in the observation room, the auburn-haired girl had said
at _Bodies, Inc._, had approved of the switch. It was a question of
money, the girl had said. And now Horner knew that was a lie. It had
to be a lie. It wasn't a question of money at all. Lionel Overman was
a convict. And the others? Convicts too, Horner decided. Glad to trade
twenty years of their lives for freedom.... Apparently they had been
recruited in prison by hirelings of _Bodies, Inc._ Apparently they
knew the full score. Lionel Overman--in Horner's body--seemed quite
sure of himself.

"Good God!" Horner blurted. "You're me! You have my body--Horner's that
is!"

"Quiet, you fool," the other Hugh Horner told him. "The old lady'll
hear you. I'll give you this much of a break: get lost and I won't call
the cops. But beat it--fast!"

"Now listen--" Horner began. His voice trailed off. He had nothing to
say. He understood, but he was stunned. Intellectual understanding and
emotional acceptance of a situation, he knew, having learned the hard
way, were two different things. But he studied Lionel Overman in Hugh
Horner's body, and was more determined than ever that he would not go
back, if going back were possible. The Hugh Horner he looked at was an
ageing man. Forty-seven? He looked easily that old. He was a dumpy man
with a sagging-jowled face, small, rather close-set eyes and a receding
hair line. The eyes looked crafty, too: Horner had never known his eyes
to look crafty before. Probably, that was Overman's personality coming
through.

"You listen to me," Overman said, "and listen good. Get lost. I mean
that brother. We both know the score, so don't try to pull any of
this bewilderment crap on me. I heard over the radio how you escaped,
but hell, man, they got a seven state alarm out for you. I got enough
trouble with that bag of an old lady inside--"

"What," said Horner in a shocked voice, "did you say?"

"I got enough trouble with your bag of a wife, I said," Overman told
him. "Hell, man, maybe my body's older now, but my memory ain't. She's
a bag. A real bag. But what do you care, huh? You ain't saddled with
her any more."

"Saddled with her?" Horner mumbled. "Saddled? I--I love my wife.
How dare you call her a--a--" Horner went livid with rage, grabbed
Overman's arm.

       *       *       *       *       *

The small dumpy man lurched toward him. "Hey, leggo--" Overman struck
out awkwardly, unathletically, in the Hugh Horner body. Horner warded
off the weak blows easily, and hit Overman once, expertly, on the point
of the jaw just as Jane Horner called from within the apartment:

"Who is it, dear? What's taking so long?"

Horner let the unconscious Overman fall. He was about to flee back to
the elevator because he couldn't face his wife now, not--apparently--as
the man who had just knocked Hugh Horner unconscious. But an apartment
door between theirs and the elevator opened and Horner had no choice
but to duck into his own apartment.

Jane appeared from the direction of the kitchen. She was wearing an
apron and she was dumpier than Horner remembered. Probably, Horner
told himself, my own dumpiness prevented me from seeing her that way.
She wore her hair in a bun and was forty-five and looked it. She was
holding a heavy green-glass pitcher in her hand and looked down at
what was apparently her unconscious husband on the floor and let out a
scream--or began to, for Horner ran to her and clasped a hand over her
mouth.

"I can explain everything," he said, wondering if, indeed, he could.
"If you promise not to shout or scream, I'll let go of you."

The trapped face nodded. Horner let go and his wife said, "I know you.
I know you now. I recognize you from the television. You're that Lionel
Overstreet--"

"Overman--but I'm not."

"Who escaped from the prison up state. What--what did you do to my
husband?"

"I," said Horner, "am your husband."

She looked at him. She looked at the Hugh Horner body, unconscious, on
the floor. She sobbed hysterically and Horner said:

"You're both coming with me, in your car."

"A murderer! You'll kill us."

"Janey, listen to me. That time in Jones Beach before we were married
and the top of your bathing suit came off while we were swimming--"

It was something only she and the real Horner would know, but he had
waited too long. He had been staring down at the unconscious Lionel
Overman while he spoke, and when he looked up it was too late to ward
off the green-glass pitcher which Jane was bringing down over his head.
It exploded there.

So did the world--for Horner.

There was a buzzing. There was a roaring.

Horner opened his eyes. He was seated on the floor and his arms were
bound. So were his legs. He looked across the foyer. Overman-in-Horner
was similarly seated, similarly bound.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You're both driving me crazy," Jane Horner said.

"You call the cops," Overman-in-Horner a asked.

"Not yet. I'll give you both a chance. You," she gestured at Overman,
"weren't acting yourself since you came home last night. You
acted--well--cruel. That's the only way I can describe it."

"Of course he wasn't acting himself," Horner-in-Overman said. "Because
he isn't--me."

"That makes sense, don't it?" Overman sneered.

"And you wouldn't say 'don't it,'" Jane told him. "And you," she said
to Horner, "when you let go of me I knew I was going to hit you with
the pitcher and I couldn't stop it, even when I wanted to when you said
that about Jones Beach. We--we were alone, my husband and me. But how
could you be my husband? You don't look like him. You--you're young
enough to be my--my son."

"Ask him," Horner said, pointing at the bound Overman, "ask him
about Jones Beach." Horner smiled grimly, waiting. His own memory of
Overman's life was only fair, and spotty, and certainly not very good
on particular details. Overman's of his would be the same.

"What happened at Jones Beach before we were married?" Jane asked
Overman.

"Twenty years ago? How the hell should I remember?"

"_He_ remembered," said Jane in a bewildered voice, pointing at Horner.

"Ask him about our honeymoon," Horner suggested.

"Where did we go on our honeymoon?"

"Er, Atlantic City," Overman-in-Horner said triumphantly.

"How long did we stay?"

"Two weeks."

"Who," Jane asked, "was in the hotel room next door?"

"Who remembers a thing like that?" Overman said after a while.

Horner grinned. "I do," he said, and named some old friends of theirs.

Jane made no comment, but asked other questions. They became
increasingly intimate, and Overman could not answer most of them. But
Horner, of course, answered them all.

Finally, Jane said, "I--I don't know how it can be." Her eyes were
filling with tears as she looked down at Overman. "You--you're my
husband. You should be. But you don't know the things he would know.
It's impossible, but you're not--not--"

Her voice trailed off. She turned to Horner. "While you--you're just
a boy. You don't look anything like my husband, but you know all the
things he knows."

       *       *       *       *       *

Quickly, Horner told her. Overman tried to confound the incredible
story with acid comments on its impossibility, but Jane heard Horner's
words and, when he had finished, she went to him slowly and untied
him. She looked at him and said, also slowly, "You--you're my husband.
I know you are. I know it now. But you're young. I can't keep you,
saddled--"

"That's just what he said," Horner said.

"But you'll want your freedom, won't you?"

"Hell," said Horner, "no. I have a better idea. Bring the car around,
Janey. We have a lot to do."

"But this man who looks like--"

"He comes with us," Horner said. He chafed his wrists and ankles and
went inside quickly and soon returned with a Luger pistol, a memento
of his Army days in Germany during the Second World War. "Get up," he
told Overman, then realized he could not. "Untie him," he told Jane.

