you must go away."

A pause followed before Mr. Wilmot said—"I have had to fight the
battle."

"What battle?"

"To be able to say from my heart, Thy will—not mine.'"

"Wrong again. Don't misunderstand me, but I think you are wrong. If God
sends the trial, He will send strength to endure. You are not called
upon yet to endure. All you are called upon to do at present is to put
aside possibilities, and to trust for the future. The more childlike
a life you can live just now the better—taking each day as it comes,
and not looking forward. I am speaking both as your friend and as your
medical adviser. This strain of expectation is the worst thing possible
for you."

Mr. Wilmot uttered a simple "Yes" of acquiescence.

"You know that it is. Now mark my words, Wilmot. There must be a
change. You must put the thing aside-give up analysis of your own
symptoms—and have done with midnight battlings. What need for it all?
HE will not let you be tried 'above that you are able.' Yours is a
childlike trust, generally. Be a child now, in trust, and leave the
matter in God's hands. He is all-powerful; and there is nothing more
that you and I can do."

"You are right," Mr. Wilmot said quietly. "I have preached you a good
many sermons, but never a truer one than you have just preached to me."

"Shall I quote from a sermon of your own?" asked Mr. Rawdon. "Your
concluding words this morning, Wilmot—'Whatever the King may appoint,
whether joy or sorrow, life or death, from Him shall come the needed
strength. Not like St. Peter, but, like St. Paul, you shall be—Ready,
aye Ready.' But standing ready to obey surely does not mean conjuring
up possibilities of commands which never may be given."

"No. You are right," repeated Mr. Wilmot, pausing before a small house.
"I must go in here."

"Not done the day's work yet! It is very late. Can't you go home and
rest?"

"I promised to look in for a minute. This is the last."

"Good-bye, then."

The two shook hands and parted, Mr. Rawdon going on alone in the
darkness. A sigh escaped him, suppressed hitherto. "Poor fellow!" he
murmured.



CHAPTER XVI.

MRS. MASON'S OPINIONS.

TEN days had gone by, and Mrs. Stuart had her foot up still on a chair,
swathed in bandages. She was allowed to hop downstairs once a day, with
Archie's aid, but not to stand yet.

Mrs. Stuart was by no means a patient invalid. It seemed to her very
hard indeed that she of all people should be laid aside, very hard that
she should have to suffer pain, very hard that she should be indebted
to neighbours—above all, to the Dunns—for help. Other people, of
course, had their troubles, and must expect to have them, as a matter
of course, but why Mrs. Stuart should have them was quite another
question. She could only count it "very hard." As for being patient and
cheerful under her trial, who could be so unreasonable as to expect it
of her!

Many a time Mrs. Stuart had heard in Church those familiar words—"Whom
the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He
receiveth." But it may very much be doubted how far Mrs. Stuart really
listened to the reading of the Bible in Church; and it may be doubted
still more how far she really understood what she heard. Her feeling
towards God was in no sense the feeling of a child towards a Father.
She had no love for Him, and she knew nothing of the deep Divine love
which will rather send pain and sorrow than suffer the wilful child to
wander on in courses of evil. Sometimes nothing less than great trouble
will bring the wayward soul to Christ.

Mrs. Stuart saw nothing of this, however. The love of God was far away
from her thoughts. She only considered herself a much injured woman;
and she felt sure that nobody had ever had so much to bear as herself;
while she was vexed with the Dunns for their persistent kindness, and
yet more vexed with Archie for his growing friendship with them.

Undoubtedly Mrs. Stuart was greatly indebted to the Dunns. Mrs. Dunn
had spent whole nights in the cottage, and had taken turns with Nancy
to run in and out by day. Mrs. Dunn was looking quite fagged with
all she had undertaken, and Mrs. Stuart ought to have been extremely
grateful. But she was not grateful at all. She was only annoyed with
herself and the Dunns and Archie and everybody—a most uncomfortable
state of mind to be in.

Mrs. Mason, living opposite Woodbine Cottage, was usually a very
convenient person in time of illness. Being a widow, with only one
married daughter, and having consequently no home-ties; being,
moreover, a motherly sort of body, with useful instincts, she liked to
be called in to help where help might be needed.

The very day, however, before Mrs. Stuart's accident, Mrs. Mason was
summoned to her married daughter by telegram. Had it not been for this,
she would as a matter of course have shared with Mrs. Dunn the care of
Mrs. Stuart.

After ten days, Mrs. Mason came home, leaving her daughter recovered
from a sharp little illness; and then she was speedily made acquainted
with events which had taken place during her absence. The next thing
that happened was Mrs. Mason's appearance in Mrs. Stuart's kitchen,
with a half-knitted stocking, a short time before tea.

"Now, you didn't expect to see me, did you?" she asked, in her round
comfortable voice, which exactly suited her stout and motherly figure.
"But I'm come. I told Mrs. Dunn I'd do it for her—get you your tea,
I mean, and wash up. Dear! I never thought I should find you like
this—that I didn't. There's never no knowing what'll happen next, and
that's a fact. Well—I'll put your kettle on to boil, first thing.
And so Mrs. Dunn's been looking after you all this while. Just like
her! She's got enough to do at home, though, and I told her I'd come
instead. But to think now of your stealing a march on me, like that! To
think of it!"

Mrs. Stuart failed to understand Mrs. Mason's meaning, and she
intimated the same in gloomy tones.

"What I mean! Why, I mean the Dunns, to be sure," said Mrs. Mason
briskly. "The nicest family that's come to Littleburgh for a year past.
And as soon as ever I'm out of the way, you've gone and stolen a march
on me, and got as intimate with 'em! No, I didn't expect it of you, I
did not, Mrs. Stuart!"

Mrs. Mason shook her head vigorously. But Mrs. Stuart was in no humour
for joking, and she intimated that fact also in yet gloomier accents.

"A joke don't do nobody any harm," said Mrs. Mason, "provided it's
harmless. There's jokes and jokes. There's a sort that's better
avoided. But I'd sooner laugh than cry over a worry any day. You
wouldn't be half such a skinny scarecrow of a woman, if you was to
laugh oftener, and glower seldomer over your frets. That you wouldn't."

Mrs. Mason was too useful a woman to be quarrelled with for her
plain-spokenness; but certainly, her remarks did not lessen Mrs.
Stuart's moodiness.

"That Nancy Dunn is the best and prettiest girl ever I see!" remarked
Mrs. Mason.

Mrs. Stuart grunted.

"Isn't she now?" asked Mrs. Mason.

"I've got nothing to say against her," declared Mrs. Stuart, with the
air of one suppressing truths.

"Shouldn't think you had, nor anybody else neither. Don't Archie like
her?" demanded Mrs. Mason, rising to get the teapot.

No answer to this.

"Well, if I was you, I'd encourage it in every way I could. That's
what I'd do," said Mrs. Mason emphatically, rinsing out the teapot.
"She's a pretty girl, and a good girl, and she'll make a good wife to
somebody some day. That girl's had a training that it isn't many girls
get now-a-days. She'll clean up a room in next to no time; and she's
first-rate at washing and ironing; and she's a good cook in a plain
way. Yes; Mrs. Dunn's a wise mother. She's trained up Nancy to follow
in her footsteps. And that isn't all neither; for she's trained up
Nannie to live for God, and to think of the world that's to come, and
not only of just how to eat and drink and get along."

Mrs. Stuart found something to say at last. She opened her lips with a
resolute, "I don't hold with being so mighty religious."

"No?" said Mrs. Mason. "How much religion do you hold with?"

"I'm not one as likes shams," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Nor me neither," responded Mrs. Mason. "But there's no sort of
shamming about the Dunns. It's real honest hearty living to God, and
trying to do His will. I can tell you, Mrs. Stuart, I've learnt a thing
or two from them already, though it's so short a time they've been
here; and I'm not ashamed to own it. And I hope I'll be the better for
knowing them. And as for being 'mighty religious'—if fighting against
wrong, and struggling to do right, and helping those that's in need,
and serving God in every bit of daily life—if that's what you mean
by 'mighty religious,' why, I wish there was a lot more of it in the
world. I do, and that's a fact. For it would be a deal better sort of
world."

"I don't like talk," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Nor me neither," assented Mrs. Mason again. "That's to say, I don't
like talk that's not carried out in action. Folks must talk. It's
natural to human nature. And folks 'll talk mostly of what comes
nearest to 'em. There's some cares most for eating, and they'll talk
of their eating. And there's some cares most for politics, and they'll
talk of politics. And there's some cares most for their children, and
they'll talk of their children. And, dear me, there's some cares only
for themselves, and won't they talk a lot about themselves? But that's
all natural. It's all human nature.

"And when a man cares for religion, and loves God from his heart—why,
don't it stand to reason that he'll speak sometimes of the things he
cares for most? That's not shamming, Mrs. Stuart. It's shamming if a
man talks religion, and don't let it come into his daily life. And
it's shamming when folks keep all their religion for Sunday, and make
believe to pray to Him in Church, and then never think of Him at all
from Monday morning till Saturday night. That's shamming, as much as
you like. But as for talk—why, talk's natural—in moderation. And you'll
never find Mrs. Dunn talk too much. No, never."

Perhaps the same could not be said of good-humoured voluble Mrs. Mason.
She brought the teapot from the hob, and set it on the table.

"There—that's all right," she said, in a different tone, possibly
feeling that she had said enough on one subject. "I've had my tea
before coming, so I don't want any; but I'll stay to wash up. I've
got my knitting. And by-and-by I'll come in again. So Archie's out
with friends to-night? Well, he's a likely young fellow—sure to make
friends. I hope they'll all be as good friends as the Dunns. And you've
had Mr. Wilmot here, paying you visits? Kind sort of man, isn't he?—and
as good! No sort of sham there neither! But he don't look as he should.
What is come over him?"

Mrs. Stuart did not know that anything had.

"He's not himself," said Mrs. Mason. "Lost all his colour, and don't
walk with half his spirit. He'd ought to take care of himself. Good
people ain't too common in this world. It's my belief, he works a deal
too hard. Yes—there's something wrong. I'm sure I don't know what."



CHAPTER XVII.

PEOPLE AND THINGS.

MANY weeks had gone by, and Mrs. Stuart was pretty well recovered from
her accident. She limped a little, it is true, and was unable to walk
any distance; still, on the whole, she might be counted convalescent.

Archie had been a good son to her through those weeks. Nobody could
question it. Even Mrs. Stuart did not deny the fact.

It may seem an odd thing to say, considering the mother's love for
her boy, but, undoubtedly, Mrs. Stuart had not quite forgiven Archie
for being in some sort the cause of her accident. If Archie had not
left her all those hours alone, she would not have gone searching
after him in the brick-fields. Mrs. Stuart was wont to dilate on this
very self-evident truth; while she forgot to mention the equally
self-evident truth that if she had not given way to ill-temper, Archie
would not have left her. Archie had been to blame, no question as to
that. But Mrs. Stuart herself could scarcely be reckoned blameless.

And Mrs. Stuart was not of a generous nature. When her foot was at
its worst, she seemed to find a particular gratification in reminding
Archie that it was "all his doing." A generous nature would have shrunk
from allowing Archie to see how much she suffered, for fear he should
blame himself too far.

Archie bore his mother's reproaches patiently—so patiently that Mrs.
Dunn often wondered, looking on. For she knew the young fellow to be of
a quick and hasty disposition; and she did not know yet how a strong
new principle was taking root in Archie Stuart's heart, and beginning
already to show in his life.

One result of Mrs. Stuart's accident was a great pleasure to Archie.
His friendship with the Dunns was no longer a thing forbidden. Mrs.
Stuart hardly could prevent it, after Susan Dunn's kind care of her.
But she still did not care to see more of the Dunns than was necessary;
and if Archie spoke of Nannie, Mrs. Stuart was sure to spend some sulky
hours in consequence.

It was very difficult for him to abstain from speaking of Nancy; for by
this time he thought of her more than of any other human being. Nancy's
pretty face was before his mind's eye perpetually. When he looked
forward to the future, it was always a future with Nancy Dunn—not
always as Nancy Dunn. But he had not spoken out to anybody yet of his
wish. He wanted his mother to learn to like Nancy first.

"Why don't you come to see my mother oftener?" he asked one day, and
Nancy answered frankly—

"I don't think she cares to have me come. She always seems so busy."

This was true, and Archie could not deny it. The thought troubled him
much, but he tried to wait quietly. Meanwhile he was very often in and
out at Woodbine Cottage; and the more he saw of the Dunns, the more
thoroughly he respected and wished to be like them.

For there was nothing half-hearted, nothing inconsistent, about these
Dunns. They were not great talkers, but neither did they hide their
religion. In Richard Dunn's life, the leading aim was to serve that
dear Lord and Master who had died for him on the Cross, and this aim
was followed out with steady persistence. If need arose, he could speak
of his heart's desire; if required to do aught which he believed to be
contrary to God's will, he could refuse quietly, and without bluster.
Lesser aims were included in the one great aim. He was a steady
workman; he sought to keep his wife and children in comfort; he loved
to have a tasteful and well-furnished little house. These things were
right. It was well that he should be the better workman, because he
served first a Heavenly Master; and it was well that while striving to
do God's will, he should seek to please his wife, and make his children
happy.

Things were much the same with Susan Dunn and with Nancy. Setting first
before them the desire to please in all things a Heavenly Master and
Friend, they did, as a matter of course, their best in all things.

But there was nothing sombre, nothing gloomy, in the atmosphere of
Woodbine Cottage. How should there be? Richard Dunn was a man of
cheerful spirit. You need not suppose for a moment that he or his
family were the less cheerful because of their religion. Why, how
should they be? Real religion—the religion of Christ—is rest, and joy,
and safety now, and the looking forward to a glorious by-and-by. That
doesn't make people gloomy. No doubt a great many true servants of
God are gloomy, but they find their gloom in themselves, not in their
religion, if it is indeed according to the teaching of Christ.

You would not have heard merrier children's voices anywhere in the
neighbourhood than in Woodbine Cottage, or a sweeter laugh than
Nancy's; nor would you have seen a sunnier face than Susan's, or a
busier and happier life than Richard Dunn's. He was always at work upon
something, even in leisure hours; reading a book, or doing a bit of
carpentering, or tending his plants, or having a game with his little
ones. There was no time in his life for idle lounging, any more than
there was in Susan's or Nancy's for gossiping.

Some people may count it odd to talk of a man being "at work" when he
reads a book or plays with his children. But there are many different
kinds of work. Reading may be very hard work indeed—not of course
just looking at a shallow article in a paper, or glancing through a
worthless novel, but real steady mastering of facts worth knowing in
a volume of history or science. And though playing with a child is
not hard work, yet it may really be in one sense work for God, if
the father is lovingly trying to win his little one's heart in every
possible way, and to please God in so doing.

Archie Stuart being much in and out of Woodbine Cottage, noticed all
these items of the way in which his friends lived and acted, and
gradually, he seemed to catch something of the same spirit. He began
to feel that for a man to live only to himself is not grand; that
to please one's self always is very easy, but not beautiful. He saw
slowly, more and more, how grand and beautiful, aye, and how manly
a thing it is, to be permitted to fight on God's side in the mighty
world-wide battle between good and evil.

No namby-pamby matter this, as Archie soon discovered. For with all his
young vigour and his strong will, he found soon how little he could do,
how strong were the powers of evil; and then it was that his friends
could speak to him of One "mighty to save," in whose great strength
Archie should, if he willed, be "more than conqueror." And then, Archie
learned to pray.

That was how Archie grew more kind and patient during the weeks of
his mother's illness. He did not think it himself. He had never found
self-restraint harder, or the temptation to sharp self-defence more
keen. But others looking on saw the difference in him already.

This learning to pray is a great step in anybody's life. Archie no
longer went to Church merely as a dull duty, to listen to words which
had as yet no meaning for him, because his eyes were not open to their
meaning. He went now to ask God, in common with others, for things
which he and they needed, to offer thanks for things already given.
Both in Church, and in his own little room, he had begun to draw nearer
to the footstool of Christ the King, to know Him as the Crucified, to
trust Him as the Saviour, to be taught of His Spirit, to bow before Him
as Lord.

For all this Archie lost no whit of his growing manliness. Was
it likely? Does any one lose in force or manliness through daily
intercourse with a mind infinitely greater and wiser than his own?
Besides, what is more manly than self-control, than conquests over
one's evil tempers, than a spirit of kindness and generosity to those
weaker than one's self? Archie was growing in these things more manly,
not less manly, day by day, and many remarked that it was so. The Dunns
saw it especially.



CHAPTER XVIII.

THE GARDINERS.

THINGS were widely different, next door to the Dunns, from what Archie
had found in Woodbine Cottage. It is astonishing what a change comes
over the scene, if one just passes from one little cottage home into a
second, the two being separated by only a slender wall.

There was not too much religion in the Gardiner household by any means,
neither was there too much of happy children's laughter, or too much
wifely affection, or too much manliness in the head of the household.

John Gardiner had probably no intention of being unmanly. Probably,
also, he was what people call "a well-meaning man," that is, he
meant to do well, so long as doing well didn't happen to cross his
own inclinations. He was a man of very strong principle too, after a
fashion, his one leading principle being always, and on all occasions,
to do exactly what he chose, without consulting the inclinations or
wishes of anybody else.

In the workshop, this principle had of course to be in a measure
subordinate to the will of his employers. But at home it had full swing.

John Gardiner at home counted himself absolute master, and he insisted
on being so too. A wife was, in his estimation, a useful sort of
creature, fit to scour and wash and cook, fit also to be the victim
of harsh words when he pleased to bestow them. If words failed to
bring submission, he would not object to try the effect of a blow.
After which, no one could rightly speak of John Gardiner as a "manly
Englishman," much as he might desire the term. For a man who can stoop
to strike a woman has forfeited utterly all claim to "manliness."

But of course Gardiner did not see this. A coward nature seldom knows
its own cowardice. A bully is always a coward; and there was a good
deal of the bully in Gardiner's nature.

His children shrank away from him habitually, with a mixture of dread
and cunning. Not that they saw much of their father. He allowed his
wife a certain amount out of his wages for household expenses—expecting
a goodly amount of the same to be spent upon food for himself—and he
came home to eat and to sleep. That was about all.

His evenings were spent elsewhere, always. If his wife knew where
he went, it was by accident, since he rarely condescended to tell
her. Perhaps it is not too much to say that neither his wife nor his
children craved more of Gardiner's presence in the little home.

If Betsy Gardiner knew little of her husband's doings, he was not much
better acquainted with those of his wife and children. The eldest
girl, Bess, was at sixteen practically independent. She chose her own
friends, followed her own devices, and was at once blamed and sheltered
by the weak and hasty yet indulgent mother. Betsy Gardiner might
slap her children roughly, under sudden provocation; but to see them
feel the weight of their father's heavy hand was another matter. She
shrank from that; and she shrank from what might drive the elder girl
permanently from home.

The state of things could hardly be wondered at. John Gardiner was a
man who lived distinctly and solely for himself. He expected everybody
and everything in the household to bend to his pleasure. He gave no
love and he received none. The example of abject self-pleasing—for such
slavery to self is abject and contemptible—was naturally followed by
his children. How should it not be? There were no softening influences;
none of an opposite kind. The spirit of the household was a reflection
of the father's spirit—how in every way to please and indulge self,
coupled in the case of the children with a constant effort to shirk
blame at any cost.

The Gardiners and the Dunns were not disposed to be intimate. Naturally
two families of such different minds and views did not suit. Had the
Gardiners been in trouble, Susan Dunn would have been ready at once to
help them. But she did not care for the friendship of Mrs. Gardiner for
herself, or of Bess for Nancy, or of the quarrelsome shrieking children
for her own Dick and Susie.

Two girls could scarcely have been found in the place more unlike
than Nancy Dunn and Bess Gardiner: Nancy, with her sweet blue eyes,
and pretty smile, and modest dress, and gentle manner; and Bess, with
her rough bearing, her coarse laugh, her conspicuous fringe, her
gaudy dress. They were girls utterly unsuited to one another. Their
bringing-up had been different, their tastes were different, their
pursuits were different, their rules of action were different.

Yet these two girls were alike in one thing, and that was in the
possession of a naturally warm heart.

Only, with Nannie the warmth had been fostered, the tenderness had been
cherished, till it was as natural to her to give out love as for a
sunbeam to give out warmth. Bess, on the other hand, had been checked
and snubbed, fretted, neglected, and scolded, till she had grown-up
seemingly hard, and ready to fight the whole world, with all her
natural warmth hidden away beneath a tough outside crust.

The warmth was there still, however. It only needed to be set free. And
nobody would have guessed that gentle Nancy Dunn would be the one to
win her way in through this crust. Yet so it was.

At first when the Dunns came, Bess laughed at them, and said scornful
words about Nancy's "prim ways." But whenever the two girls met,
Nanny always had a little smile, and a kind passing word for Bess.
And gradually Bess ceased to sneer. The winning manner and the soft
straightforward eyes were unconsciously gaining possession of poor Bess
Gardiner's frozen-up heart.

Nancy did not know it. She guessed nothing of it yet. She only thought
it rather odd that she should so often lately have met Bess. Somehow
Bess seemed to be always coming across her path. Bess would say nothing
when they met. She only hung about sheepishly till she had had a word
of greeting, and then rushed away. And Nancy never gave more than the
passing word; for she knew that Bess' companionship would not be liked
by her mother. Nannie did not know how Bess craved for more, how Bess
watched for her coming, and feasted on the passing word, and would have
run a mile for a second word. If any one had suggested such a state of
things, Nancy would have laughed and thought the idea absurd.

Yet things had actually come to this pass, one August evening, when
Nancy Dunn had been to speak to Miss Wilmot at the Rectory, and was
walking home—things had come to such a pass that poor rough-mannered
Bess might almost be said to worship the ground on which Nancy Dunn
walked.

The evening was a lovely one, and Nancy was tempted to stroll a
short distance round on her way home. She chose a quiet lane, with a
hedge on either side, more country-like than most of the roads round
Littleburgh. And halfway through this lane, she found Bess Gardiner
standing alone doing nothing, only watching her approach.



CHAPTER XIX.

THAT GIRL BESS!

"GOOD evening," Nancy said pleasantly, as she reached Bess, and was
about to pass her.

But Bess, with a sudden movement, placed herself in front of Nancy.

"You don't never say one word more!" she burst out. "And I wish you
would."

Nancy looked at her in surprise. "Why—what do you want me to say?" she
asked. "I don't understand."

Bess hung her head and was silent. She had spoken under a momentary
impulse, and now shyness seized upon her. Rough-mannered Bess was by no
means wont to suffer from shyness, and the sensation came as a novelty.

"I'd like to walk along the lane with you," she muttered at length.

Nancy was perplexed, knowing well that her mother would strongly
disapprove of any intercourse beyond the exchange of bare civilities
between Bess and herself. She stood still, thinking.

"I ain't good enough for you. But I'd like a talk with you sometimes.
Don't see why I shouldn't. Might make me better, you know," continued
Bess awkwardly.

"I should like to help anybody," Nancy said, speaking slowly. "Anybody
that wants help. I should like to help you—if I could," and she
hesitated, "but—"

"But you don't choose to be seen walking along of me," cried Bess, in
loud tones.

"It isn't choosing—indeed it is not," said Nancy, distressed at the
other's look. "Bess, please believe me. It is only—I always tell mother
first—and then—"

But Bess flung herself away, and rushed off, hurt and angry. Nancy felt
sorrowful, fearing that she might have acted unwisely, and done harm.

When, however, she reached the end of the lane, and turned into a
broader road, there stood Bess.

"I say," the strange girl burst out, "you aren't angered?"

"No," Nancy answered, with a little smile; "I'm only sorry."

"I say," repeated the other, "d'you mean to say you do just as your
mother tells you?"

"I hope so," Nancy said gravely. "Why, Bess, doesn't the Bible tell us
to obey our parents? And she's such a dear good mother, I couldn't bear
to make her unhappy."

"Oh, well; mine's a different sort from that," said Bess.

"But if she is—if she were—that wouldn't make any difference about
what's right for you," urged Nancy.

"Oh, I think it does! I've had pretty near enough of my home," said
Bess recklessly. "I'll go and live with somebody else."

"O no, Bess, you won't," said Nancy seriously.

"But I mean to," responded Bess. "So there! I did think I'd have a talk
with you—and you won't."

Nancy's eyes looked into those of Bess.

"Don't be vexed," the gentle girl urged. "I'll have a talk with mother,
and she'll let me see you, I'm sure."

"She don't like girls as wears hair like mine. I know," said Bess,
with a careless shake of the unkempt mass which descended low on her
freckled forehead. "I've seen her look me over. I know."

"Mother doesn't think that sort of thing respectable for girls in our
position, Bess," said Nancy quietly.

"Nor you don't neither," said Bess.

"No," said Nancy.

Bess shoved back the loose mass, stared at Nancy and suddenly burst
into tears.

"I'd be respectable if I could," she sobbed. "Nobody's never taught me;
and I don't know how. I'd learn from you, that I would—and you won't
help me! I'd best give up, that's what I'd best do! I'll give up, and
I'll never speak one word to you again, that I won't."

But Nancy's hand was on Bess' arm, detaining her, when she would have
rushed away.

"No, Bess," Nancy said, "you won't give up. You'll try harder. And
you'll come home with me now and see mother, and she'll tell you what
to do."

"Come home! With you!" gasped Bess.

"Yes; come straight home with me now."

Bess said not another word. She gave herself up to Nancy's guidance,
and followed her meekly into Woodbine Cottage. The two girls hardly
spoke by the way; and indeed the distance was very short.

Susan Dunn happened to be alone indoors, her husband having taken out
the two children for a short walk. Susan was busy over some mending.
She looked up with a smile on Nancy's entrance, but the smile passed
into an expression of doubtful welcome, as her eyes fell on Nancy's
companion.

"Mother, I've brought Bess Gardiner to you," said Nancy simply. "She
isn't happy at home, and she wants some one to help her to be better.
And I didn't know what you'd like me to do, so I've brought her to you.
I knew you'd be glad."

Was Susan glad? With all her kind-heartedness, she had very particular
notions about proper acquaintances for herself and her children, more
especially for Nancy. And she had taken such pains to avoid any kind of
intimacy with those Gardiners. For a moment Susan really did feel quite
provoked, and the only answer she made to Nancy's appeal was a slow,
"Well—sit down."

Bess stood doggedly upright.

"I told you so!" she muttered to Nancy. "And I'm not a-going to stay
where I'm not wanted."

"Mother, Bess isn't happy, and she wants help," pleaded Nancy.

"Not likely to be happy with their sort of way of going on," said
Susan. "But if there's anything I can do—Sit down," she repeated.

No, Bess declined to obey. She came a step forward, with glowering eyes.

"It wasn't my wish to come," she declared. "I'm not one of them who'll
go where they're not wanted. And she'd ought to have known better
than to bring me. I don't say I'm fit company for her, neither. Only,
she's always got a kind word for me—and I did think—maybe—but it don't
matter! I'll go my own way, and I'll never trouble nobody again—never
It don't matter. Folks are born to be miserable, I suppose. And there's
nobody to care. It don't matter. So, good-bye."

"O mother!" cried Nancy in distress, tears filling her eyes, as Bess
turned away.

But it was not Nancy's cry which made Susan Dunn stand up and move
swiftly between Bess and the door, with a face which had softened all
at once into motherly pity. Another thought had come to Susan—the
thought of One who did care, who cared so much for poor rough Bess as
to have given up His life for her on Calvary. How would it be in His
eyes, if Susan let this poor untaught girl wander away without the help
which she craved?

"Good-bye; I'm going," repeated Bess hoarsely. "Let me go."

"No, my dear. You're not going yet," said Susan, in resolute tones.
"Nannie's right to bring you in. You're not going yet. You just take
your shawl off your head, and sit down and tell me what's the matter.
And you needn't say again that nobody cares. Come, child, sit down!"

That conquered Bess. She took the seat indicated and laying her head on
the table, broke into heavy sobs.

"Come, now—come!" repeated Susan. "Don't you be so upset. Tell me
what's wrong, and we'll see if I can't help you put things right."
Then, with a sudden thought, "Is it anything my Nannie shouldn't hear?
I'll send her away, if it is. She don't know the bad ways of some of
you girls; and I don't choose she should, as long as I can keep her
from it."

Bess choked down her sobs, and sat up with heaving chest.

"I wouldn't tell her neither," she said earnestly. "I'm not so bad as
that. She ain't like us; and I wouldn't be the one to make her like my
sort. I'd sooner learn to be like her—if I could."

"And of course you can," said Susan encouragingly. "I'd begin this
minute, if I was you."

"Begin to be like Nancy! This minute!" Bess said, in a wondering tone,
as if the idea were a new one.

"To be sure I would," said Susan.

Whatever Susan Dunn did or did not mean in a practical sense, Bess
evidently had some distinct notions on the subject, for she sat more
upright, gazed hard at Nancy, then walked to a small looking-glass
hung over the mantel-shelf and surveyed herself. Susan and Nancy said
nothing for a few seconds. On the dresser stood a basin full of water,
and Bess' next move was to plunge her rough unshawled head into this
water. It came out dripping; and she parted the flattened thick mass
with her fingers, pushing it back on either side.