
"How they'll jeer!" she burst out then.

"Who will?" asked Susan.

"They! When I'm seen like this."

"The girls that you've made your friends? But you'll have to leave
them, and choose a better sort of friends," said Susan.

Bess walked back to her vacated seat.

"Won't you mind Nancy being seen along of me now?" she demanded.

Susan was rather perplexed. Certain other changes would be needed
beside the possession of a neat head, if Bess Gardiner was to be
counted a fit companion for Nancy Dunn; yet she could not bear to check
the poor ignorant girl in her first effort to take a right turn.

"What makes you want that so much?" she inquired.

"Because—" Bess' voice suddenly faltered. "Because there ain't nobody
like her—and I—I—I'd do anything in all the world that ever I could for
her—I would!"

Mother and daughter exchanged looks, tears in Nancy's eyes, and
something very like tears in Susan's.



"I'm sure I don't wonder, neither," pursued Mrs. Mason. "They're the
nicest family I know in all Littleburgh. Yes, the very nicest."

Mrs. Stuart tossed her head.

"And Nannie Dunn is the sort of girl one don't come across often." said
Mrs. Mason. "She's the best-trained I ever saw. And the best-behaved.
And the prettiest. And the neatest-dressed. I'm sure now, to hear Miss
Wilmot talk of her! And as for that poor thing, Bess Gardiner—why,
she's a different creature altogether. I do believe there's nothing on
earth she wouldn't do, if Nannie bid her. Mrs. Gardiner can't make her
out. There's a lot done among girls by a good example. And I always do
say Archie 'll have a pretty little wife, and a good one too, some day."

Mrs. Stuart wheeled round upon Mrs. Mason, snorting contemptuously.

"My Archie's not a-going to marry Nancy Dunn," she declared, her
nostrils quivering with anger.

"Why now, you don't say so! And everybody counting it a settled thing,"
said Mrs. Mason.

"Everybody's got no business. It's not a settled thing. It's never
a-going to be a settled thing," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Just suited for one another too," said Mrs. Mason.

"My Archie's in the trade," said Mrs. Stuart majestically; "and his
father was in the trade afore him, and his father afore him. And Dunn's
a labourer. Archie's not a-going to marry yet. And when he does, he'll
marry somebody of his own proper standing. And that's all I've got to
say about it."

"Pity! Ain't it?" said Mrs. Mason. "And Dunn pretty near as well able
to handle the tools as any man in the trade, if it wasn't for trade
restrictions; and better read by a long way than any other man at the
works. And you don't count Nannie good enough for your Archie! Dear me,
now! I shouldn't have thought it."

"It don't matter who thinks, nor who don't," said Mrs. Stuart,
impatiently pouring water from the kettle into the teapot. "I've my own
mind in the matter."

"But, Mrs. Stuart, Archie has his mind too," her visitor said. "And
he's getting to be a man fast. And I suppose a man has a right to his
mind, as well as a woman."

"Maybe!" Mrs. Stuart said shortly. Perhaps the idea had not struck her
before.

"If I was you," Mrs. Mason went on, "I'd just take care not to pull the
cord too tight—that's what I'd do. For if you don't, I shouldn't wonder
but some day or other your boy may chance to break loose from it. It's
not all young fellows as 'ud wait so patient as Archie's waiting now.
And if I was you, I wouldn't go too far. You don't know but what the
temptation might be too strong for him, if you do. His heart's just set
on Nannie, and there's nothing except your will keeping the two apart."

Mrs. Stuart snorted again.

"I'm not saying that Archie has a mind to marry yet awhile, for I know
he hasn't. I've heard him say so. And there's no need for you to fret
and worry, expecting that. Archie knows well enough his first duty
is to his mother. You've done a deal for him, and he knows it, Mrs.
Stuart. He don't mean to marry till he can earn enough to keep a wife
as well as his mother. I shouldn't wonder if he hasn't said so much to
you. It's not a subject you're over-fond of talking about, if I'm not
mistaken. But Archie knows his duty, and he does mean to do it. And if
he didn't, there'd be none quicker to blame him than Mrs. Dunn."

Mrs. Stuart grunted this time.

"Howsomever, I do say his mind is set on Nannie Dunn—and I don't
wonder!" said Mrs. Mason. "If I was a man, I wouldn't look at another
girl in the place beside her! And I do say, you'll be wise to give
in to your boy, and let him be happy. You don't like me saying so
much!—No, of course you don't. And it isn't none of my business—no, of
course it isn't. But I do say, if I was you, I wouldn't risk snapping
of the cord by pulling of it too tight. For there's never no knowing
how much a young man 'll stand."

Grunt the second.

"Now if Nannie was a bad sort of girl, and one as couldn't be expected
to make Archie a good wife, why, you'd be right to hold out all you
could. But when there's no sort of manner of reason!—And when she's the
best and sweetest and prettiest girl that ever was!—And when Archie
just dotes on her!—And when she's willing!—And when her father and
mother don't object!—Why, I do say, Mrs. Stuart—just you lend me a pair
of scissors for one moment, will you?—I do say, Mrs. Stuart, you'll be
wise to give in. And if you're angry with me for speaking out, I can't
help it; for I made up my mind I'd speak out, and when I make up my
mind to a thing, I'm not easy stopped. And Archie's behaved so pretty
of late, I do think he deserves it."

Mrs. Mason was a person of some influence among her neighbours,
accounted by them to possess an uncommon amount of common-sense. Her
words were not without effect. Mrs. Stuart made no answer; but she did
not snort or toss her head. When Mrs. Mason was gone, she actually sat
idle, with her hands before her, thinking the matter over.

After all, there was much truth in Mrs. Mason's words, and Mrs. Stuart
knew it. She began almost to wish that she could see some mode of
giving way to Archie, without hurting her own dignities. Like many
people of rather small minds, Mrs. Stuart had the greatest possible
objection to acknowledging herself in the wrong. She always was right,
and she always had been right; and if she once said a thing, she stuck
to it like a limpet to a rock.

So the difficulty was, how she could possibly slide out of her former
position into a new position, without giving anybody the power to say,
"Mrs. Stuart has changed her mind." Mrs. Stuart prided herself on not
changing her mind. Infallible people never do change their minds; for
why should they ever become wiser to-day than they were yesterday?

Still, without condescending to change her mind, or to acknowledge that
she had been mistaken, Mrs. Stuart had certainly obtained a new view of
the question. And the grand puzzle was—how to beat a retreat without
seeming to do so?



CHAPTER XXIV.

THE RECTOR'S WISH.

EXACTLY one quarter of an hour after Mrs. Mason's departure, there
came a rap at the door. Mrs. Stuart went to open it. Outside stood
a respectably dressed young woman, tall and plain-featured. The
shawl drawn over her head in lieu of a bonnet marked her out as a
"factory-girl."

Mrs. Stuart had a puzzled recollection of knowing the face, but
she could attach no name to it. So she only stared solemnly at the
new-comer, who returned the stare with interest, while demanding
bluntly—

"Mrs. Mason here?"

"No," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Plague!" muttered the other. "And they told me she was."

"She's been here," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Where's she gone, then?"

"What's she wanted for?" asked Mrs. Stuart.

"One o' the Handcock children's been and pulled a kettle o' boiling
water over, and got itself scalded. Nancy Dunn's in there, but Mrs.
Dunn's out, and Nancy thought Mrs. Mason 'ud help best. So I said I'd
fetch her, and they told me she was come here."

"Why, whatever in the world was the mother about not to look after the
child?" demanded Mrs. Stuart.

"Mrs. Handcock? She's off at the factory all day."

"More shame for her!" said Mrs. Stuart. "With four babies to look
after, and a husband getting good wages."

"Well, she is—and the children's locked up at home commonly. Nancy
heard the screams, and called help, and the door was broke open
somehow. They had a job to get in. The child's badly hurt."

"I shouldn't wonder if Mrs. Mason was—what's your name?" inquired Mrs.
Stuart.

"I'm Bess Gardiner." The girl's freckled face coloured up.

"You Bess Gardiner! I never! Why, I shouldn't have known you."

"That's what I am," said Bess hardily.

"I shouldn't have known you, anyway," repeated Mrs. Stuart.

"It's Nancy's doing," said Bess.

"What's her doing?"

"Me!" said Bess curtly. "If I'm different, it's all Nancy."

"You ain't a friend of Nancy Dunn's!" said Mrs. Stuart, with a toss of
her head.

Bess flashed out, understanding more than Mrs. Stuart would have
expected—

"No—that's what I'm not. You're right there. I'm not good enough to
be Nancy's friend. But she's the best friend to me ever I had in all
my life. She don't cock up her head and look down upon everybody as
isn't as good as herself. She just takes 'em by the hand, and helps 'em
on. If it hadn't been for Nancy—" Bess came to a stop. "But I've no
business waiting here. You can't tell me where I'm to find Mrs. Mason?"

"No, I can't," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Might as well ha' told me so at first!" And Bess dashed away.

Mrs. Stuart made no effort to detain Bess further. She went back to her
seat and her darning.

Not, however, to remain long undisturbed. Visitors were plentiful this
day. Another rap at the door—gentler in kind than the last—drew Mrs.
Stuart thither again.

"May I come in?" asked the Rector's pleasant tones.

Mrs. Stuart backed before him in a flutter of pleasure. As Archie
had said, she "set great store" by Mr. Wilmot. A call from him
made a red-letter day in her calendar. Mr. Wilmot was a thorough
gentleman, never more so than in the homes of working-men, and his
kind considerate courtesy had long ago won Mrs. Stuart's heart.
Immediately her eyes fell on him, she made up her mind not to speak as
yet about the scalded child, lest he should instantly start off for the
Handcocks' cottage.

"Pray do come in, sir," said Mrs. Stuart, with an air of much alacrity,
dusting a chair which required no dusting.

Mr. Wilmot found his way to it, with a faint smile of response. He
looked very pale and weary, and for two or three seconds he did not
speak. Mrs. Stuart watched him in an uneasy fashion.

"I'm afraid you're ill, sir," she said at length.

"Not very well," Mr. Wilmot answered. "Would it trouble you much, Mrs.
Stuart, to give me a cup of tea?"

Trouble her! Mrs. Stuart was delighted. She put back the kettle on the
coals, brought out china and teapot anew, and cut some delicate slices
of thin bread-and-butter, disregarding Mr. Wilmot's assurances that he
wanted nothing to eat.

Then she stood by the fire, waiting till the kettle should boil. Mrs.
Stuart was far too good a housewife to make tea from a singing but not
boiling kettle.

Mr. Wilmot leant back in the big wooden easy-chair, as silent as
herself. Mrs. Stuart, unlike Annie, knew illness when she saw it, and
she was much struck with his air of exhaustion. It seemed so unlike Mr.
Wilmot. Generally when he came in he was bright and chatty, asking her
about all her interests and belongings.

"I'm afraid you've been very bad sir, lately," she said. "There's a
good many of us have seen it. You've lost a deal of flesh."

Hardly any answer came to this. The water was boiling at last—evidenced
by the straight rush of steam from the spout and by the dancing lid.
A few minutes more, and Mr. Wilmot was gratefully sipping a cup of
excellent tea.

"You certainly are an adept in the art of tea making," he said.

"And I'm sure I'm proud to make it for you; sir," asserted Mrs. Stuart,
with a geniality of manner which would have astonished many of those
acquaintances who knew her only as a human icicle. An icicle needs to
be thawed before it can possibly become warm; and not many people in
Littleburgh possessed such thawing powers as Mr. Wilmot.

"Sit down, Mrs. Stuart. Pray don't stand," he said kindly.

Mrs. Stuart complied.

"And you'll eat something—won't you now?" she entreated. "My bread's
every bit home-made, and I'll answer for it as it's wholesome. You do
look better for the tea, sir, already. I didn't like to see you as you
was when you come in."

"Mrs. Stuart, if you see my daughter, don't mention this to her," said
Mr. Wilmot. "She is anxious enough already."

"No, sir. She'd need be anxious, I'm sure," said Mrs. Stuart, unaware
that it is often by no means the height of wisdom to tell an invalid
how ill he is looking. "For I don't know as I ever did see anybody
change for the worse, sir, in a few months, as you've done—and you
as used to be so strong! Why, you've grown as thin! And not a bit of
strength in you."

"Not very much sometimes," admitted Mr. Wilmot. Then with a grave smile
he added, "But isn't it a happy thing to be able to say, not only 'To
live is Christ!' but also 'To die is gain!'"

"Mercy, sir! You're not a-going to die," exclaimed Mrs. Stuart, though
she had often of late asserted a belief in the fatal nature of Mr.
Wilmot's illness.

"That neither you nor I can tell. It will be as my Master wills. If He
calls me, I am ready."

"But, sir—"

Mrs. Stuart stopped. Something in his look affected her strangely. She
might talk to others in a glib style about his failing health, assuming
to possess a gift of foresight, yet all the while not fully believing
her own words. To hear him speak thus was another matter. A lump in her
throat checked utterance.

"It matters little—if one is ready—whether the call Home comes a few
years earlier or later," mused Mr. Wilmot. "But—if one were not ready—"

"I'm sure," said Mrs. Stuart huskily—"I'm sure it wasn't that as I
meant, though I did say to Mrs. Mason as I'd never seen nobody so
changed, and Mrs. Mason said—she says—"

Actually a tear rolled down Mrs. Stuart's cheek, and fell on her lap.
Ashamed, she turned away her head.

"My kind old friend!" Mr. Wilmot said quickly, touched by the sight.
"But I did not mean to distress you, Mrs. Stuart. I was speaking then
in general terms—about you or me or anybody; not about myself alone.
The call may come to any one among us, any day; and I should like to
feel that you and all are indeed ready for it."

Then passing naturally to another subject, he asked, "How is Archie?"

"He's well, sir," said Mrs. Stuart, heaving a deep sigh.

"Getting on at the works?"

"Yes, sir."

"And a good son to you, Mrs. Stuart?"

"Yes, sir." Mrs. Stuart's tone grew more dubious, and also harder. "I
don't complain."

"Have you anything to complain of?"

"He's got his faults," said Mrs. Stuart stiffly.

"Why, yes—he would hardly be human if he had not," said Mr. Wilmot,
smiling. "What of his liking for bright little Nancy Dunn?"

Mrs. Stuart's face became grim. All softness and geniality had died out
of it.

"She is a good girl, Mrs. Stuart," said the Rector.

"She ain't the sort for me!" said Mrs. Stuart.

"I am sorry for that. She seems to me just the sort for your Archie."

Mrs. Stuart was silent.

"Another person can, perhaps, hardly judge for a mother in such a
matter," observed Mr. Wilmot. "But take care, Mrs. Stuart. It is a
serious responsibility for you to refuse your consent, if there is not
a sufficient reason. I have wished for some time to have a few words
with you on this subject."

"Yes, sir," said Mrs. Stuart, with unsmiling visage.

"Don't count it interference on my part. You and I are old friends,
and I am thinking about your son's happiness. Archie is, I do believe,
earnestly seeking now to serve God; and Nancy Dunn is one who would
help him on in the right path. If you stop the thing altogether,
Archie's next fancy may be for a very different kind of girl. I want
you to think over the idea. Archie is no longer a child at your knee,
and sooner or later he must decide for himself. I hope he will not go
against your will; but it is very important that your will should be
distinctly on the right side. Probably years may pass before Archie
will be in a condition to marry. Meantime, I can scarcely fancy any
greater help in keeping him steady, than that he should be engaged to
such a girl as Nancy."

Mrs. Stuart was silent.

"Come, you will reconsider the matter, perhaps," said Mr. Wilmot,
standing up. "Second thoughts are often best. Thank you very much for
your nice tea. I must not wait longer, for somebody has appointed to
see me at home. Good-bye, Mrs. Stuart."

"Good-bye, sir," said Mrs. Stuart.

Mr. Wilmot turned back on the threshold to say in a kind tone—"I wish
you would give your consent."

Then he was gone.



CHAPTER XXV.

REST.

"FATHER, I expected you home nearly an hour ago," said Annie, meeting
Mr. Wilmot at the hall door.

"Yes—I could not come, dear."

"Mr. Page has been waiting ever so long in the study to see you."

There was an almost imperceptible sigh. "I should have been in time,
but I was stopped. One Of the poor little Handcocks has been terribly
scalded. Of course I went at once to see."

"Oh, how dreadful! How was it?" asked Annie. She was watching anxiously
her father's face, even while keeping up in resolute style the cheerful
manner which she had cultivated of late.

"The mother out, of course, and the four infants locked indoors alone.
A kettle of water had been left on or close to the kitchen fire, and
the eldest child pulled it over, trying to lift it farther away. The
youngest child, crawling on the floor, narrowly escaped a complete
deluge. Bad enough as it is."

"Who helped the poor things?"

"Nancy Dunn. Her mother was out, and Nancy behaved admirably. Bess
Gardiner went off in search of Mrs. Mason."

"Bess Gardiner! Why, how was she not in the factory?"

"Some repairs going on in the machinery where she works. Annie, dear, I
think I must sit down."

"O father!" Annie's start was self-reproachful. "How wrong of me to
keep you here! Come to the drawing-room. Mr. Page is in the study."

"Better get that over. He has waited so long.

"I wish you would not. I am sure you ought to rest."

Mr. Wilmot stooped to kiss Annie.

"Nothing of consequence, I think," he said, as if answering her
unspoken fear. "We will have a quiet evening. Come to me when Mr. Page
goes."

But Mr. Page was sure to be long in going. Annie knew this well from
past experience. She saw her father disappear within the study door,
dragging one foot after the other. Then she busied herself in the
drawing-room as best she could, waiting for the welcome sound of
footsteps in the hall.

How Mr. Page's voice went on—on—on! Annie could seldom hear the sound
of her father's voice in response. Mr. Page seemed to have a large
amount to say; and he was very lengthy in the saying of it.

Suddenly a ring at the front door, and the opening of the study door.
Mr. Page appeared alone, not followed as was usual by Mr. Wilmot.

"Good evening, Miss Wilmot—good evening," said Mr. Page. "Fine day,
isn't it? Mr. Wilmot doesn't seem quite the thing, though—no, certainly
not quite the thing. He'll be getting away for a holiday soon, and
that'll set him up. I tell him, he wants a holiday, for he works too
hard—a great deal too hard. Never any rest, morning, noon, or night,
Sunday or week-day. Human nature wasn't made to stand it. I'm sorry
to have had to stay so long, but there was a lot of things to settle.
Good-bye, good-bye."

Mr. Page vanished, and a voice at the front door was requesting to "see
Mr. Wilmot." Annie waited to see who it might be, then glided into the
study.

The room was getting rather dark, and Mr. Wilmot had chosen a shady
position, leaning back in his easy-chair.

"Father, Mr. Page has been very long. Somebody else wants a word with
you now."

A pause, and then—"I think—I can do no more."

The voice was not entirely natural.

Annie bent over him, trying to see his face.

"Are you very tired, father?"

"Yes—strangely weary to-night."

He did not ask who had come. Annie had never before known such an
omission.

"I will settle it," she said, and she went to the maid, waiting outside
the study door.

"The man must come again to-morrow," she said. "My father is not well,
and he must be quiet this evening. And please go yourself at once for
Mr. Rawdon. If he is not in, leave a message, asking him to come as
soon as he possibly can."

Once more in the study, Annie sat down close beside her father,
watching him steadily in the dim light. He did not appear to notice
her, until she laid her hand on his, and then his fingers closed round
it.

"Father, have you any pain?" she asked.

"No, my child, Nothing, except weariness."

"When did that come on?"

He hesitated, as if to recall—then said only—"I don't know."

His head was drooping, as if he had not strength to hold it up. Annie
put her arms round him supportingly.

"Would you not like to lie down?"

No reply came.

"If you could get a little rest—"

"This is rest," he said dreamily.

Some minutes went slowly by. It was impossible that Mr. Rawdon should
arrive yet. Annie did not like the heavy silence. It filled her with a
nameless dread.

"Father, I think you want food. May I get something?"

"No, darling. I am very comfortable."

"Really comfortable? You don't feel ill? Is it only rest that you want?"

"Only—rest," he said.

Another prolonged silence.

"The depths of His mercy—" she heard at length whispered.

"Yes, father—"

But silence again.

Was that the front door bell? Had Mr. Rawdon come?

She could not move to ring or ask. Mr. Wilmot was leaning against her,
supported by her in a measure. It was as much as she could do to hold
him up.

Steps sounded in the hall, and at the same instant Mr. Wilmot stirred.
Annie was conscious of a slight start—was it from pain? She could not
tell. Two words fell from his lips with a singular distinctness, an
intonation of surprise and joy—

   "READY—MASTER—"

Mr. Rawdon entered the study. He walked straight towards the arm chair,
took Mr. Wilmot's hand, dropped it, turned to the table, and struck a
light.

Annie noted first the changed look on Mr. Rawdon's face. Then, as he
relieved her of the weight she bore, she saw her father's face.

No signs of pain there, or even of weariness now. The eyes were lifted,
looking upward, far beyond the enclosing walls of that small room, and
the pale lips, smiling, said once more with exultant clearness—

   "AYE—READY!"

Then he seemed to fall quietly asleep. It was a sleep from which no
earthly power, no human skill might awake him.



CHAPTER XXVI.

A LOSS.

ALL Littleburgh mourned for Mr. Wilmot, for he had been a friend to all.

Of Annie's grief it is needless to speak. The blow almost crushed her.
She felt herself alone in the world, bereft of him who had been father,
mother, friend, and companion to her. She had indeed other friends, and
a choice of homes for the future, but none could ever fill his place in
her heart.