"I suppose God could bear us through anything—even that!" Dunn said,
with an effort. "Only He hasn't called us to it. He has taken care
of our Nannie for us. I do think we ought to be full of nothing but
thankfulness, instead of talking about what might have been. I do think
it," repeated Dunn.

"I ought to go home," Archie said unwillingly. "Mother 'll be anxious,
if she hears about the dog."

"Well, we won't keep you, lad," said Dunn. "But you'll come again? You
can't come too often. I shall be able to thank you better another day.
Sue and me feel all turned upside-down-like this evening."

Archie went off briskly, straight home first, though determined later
to inquire what was become of the dog. He found Mrs. Stuart in a
very troubled state. Some rumours of peril to Archie had reached her
ears; and she was working herself up into a fever of fright. Archie's
appearance and his bright face were a great relief.

He told her something of what had happened, but not more than was
necessary. He rightly judged that Mrs. Stuart would not welcome any
event which should tend to intimacy with the Dunns.

Other people, however, lavishly filled up gaps in Archie's tale; and
before nightfall, Mrs. Stuart knew as much of Archie's doings as he
knew himself.



CHAPTER V.

A BRAVE DEED.

ANNIE WILMOT, passing quickly indoors at her father's bidding, did not
catch the ominous words which had reached his ears. And believing that
he wished her not to see the cause of the uproar, she went dutifully to
the dining-room at the back, without one glance through a front window.

Mr. Wilmot, stepping out of his gate, had not resolved what to do. His
immediate object was to take a glance, and then to beat a retreat.
There would be time for this, he knew. It was not his intention to
place himself recklessly in danger by meeting a mad dog in full
career,—if the creature were really mad. He had his doubts on this head.

Once in the road, he cast two quick glances—first to right, then to
left. Then, instead of retiring, as he might have done, he stood still.
For on the right, running along the road straight towards him, was the
dog, wearing every appearance of madness in the semi-exhausted stage:
and on the left, about halfway between himself and the nearest cottage,
were three little unconscious children, sitting by the roadside, never
dreaming of danger.

If Mr. Wilmot could reach the little ones before the dog, that would be
the utmost he might accomplish. And how, then, could he hope to save
all three?

They were getting frightened, poor mites! The shouts had aroused them:
and one small creature tottered to her feet; another, catching sight of
the dog, set up a wail.

Mr. Wilmot was not looking at them now. He had walked to the middle of
the road, and he stood there, facing the poor mad brute, quite calm and
cool. Not the slightest sign of flurry or fear showed in his manner.
The men behind redoubled their shouts, but this was of little use.

The dog drew near, came close, and snapped at the man in his path.

With one sharp swerve, Mr. Wilmot avoided the bite. The next instant
the dog was in his grasp, lifted off the ground, and held out at arm's
length. It was a desperate feat. No man less powerfully made could have
done the same. One hand gripped firmly the back of the dog's neck, the
other held its back, not far from the tail.

A fearful struggle followed, but Mr. Wilmot did not yield. "Quick!" was
the one word he uttered; and a butcher's man, rushing up with a sharp
knife, put the creature to an instant death.

"Thanks," Mr. Wilmot said, as he dropped the dead body.

"Sir, I don't believe there's another man in the village would have
dared do that!" the butcher's man exclaimed.

"I am bodily strong," said Mr. Wilmot. "Have the creature taken away at
once, and buried deep. The less handling of it the better. Anybody been
bitten?"

The men who had gathered round hoped not. They had done their best to
warn everybody, and to drive it out of the more frequented streets. But
one young girl had had a narrow escape.

"Better see to those children; they are frightened," said Mr. Wilmot.

He did not go to them himself, as he would usually have done. One or
two thought the severe struggle and exertion had been somewhat too
much for "the Parson." He looked pale, as he nodded farewell, and went
indoors.

Annie came to meet him. "Father, was anything the matter?"

"A mad dog, dear. The poor thing is killed now."

"And nobody hurt?"

"The men hoped not. One girl had a very narrow escape; but I did not
hear particulars."

Annie shuddered. "How dreadful!" she said. "You didn't help to kill
him, father? You didn't put yourself in any danger?"

"Not unnecessarily. The actual killing was done by the butcher's man.
A happy thing that he was there. My dear, I have a little business to
attend to in the town; but I shall not be gone long."

"Do ask if anybody is hurt, father."

"Yes, dear."

Mr. Wilmot gave her his usual smile, and entered the study, shutting
the door. A different expression came over his face then. He lighted a
light, and looked at his left wrist, just under the coat-sleeve.

Yes, he had felt the touch of a tooth there, in the instant's sharp
scuffle, before he obtained command of the mad animal. It was hardly
more than a short red scratch, just deep enough to have drawn blood.
Nothing to look at; but Mr. Wilmot knew what it might portend!

He glanced at his watch. "The doctor will be in now. Better so; he will
do it more thoroughly than I could myself."

Without a word to Annie, he was gone. It was close upon ten o'clock
when he reappeared.

"Not quite tired out, waiting for me, my child?" he asked cheerfully.

"Where have you been all this time?" asked Annie.

"I had a little business matter to attend to; and since then I have
been to see a new family, just come to Littleburgh—the Dunns. The
eldest girl had a most narrow escape to-day. She was saved by Mrs.
Stuart's son."

"Young Stuart! How nice of him! Father, there have been several people
here, asking after you. They all say you were so brave,—saving some
poor little children. Was it true? Did you really catch up the dog
by its neck and back, without letting it touch you? How could you? O
father, it was frightfully dangerous!" And she hid her face on his
shoulder.

"I am very strong, Annie. God has not given me my bodily strength for
nothing."

"But if the creature had bitten you! Oh, father!"

"If so, my child, it would have come in the way of my duty."

"But such a death!" And she shivered.

"All who are bitten do not die of hydrophobia, dear. And even if that
were to be the end, it would still be God's will. Heaven would be none
the less fair for one having reached it by a fiery chariot. But come, I
think we have talked long enough of this. It is time for Prayers."

Annie clung to him still. "I can't help thinking!" she said. "It seems
so frightful. If anybody had been bitten, how soon would he be safe?"

"The disease generally develops in a few days or weeks. It might even
be as long as a year; but this is rare. Not longer, I believe."

"Then one would not feel sure till after a whole year! What a frightful
year that would be! Oh, I am so glad nobody in Littleburgh has to look
forward to it!"

"Time for Prayers now, Annie;" and his clear-cut pleasant face, only a
shade paler than usual, smiled down on her. "Will you ring the bell?"

Annie obeyed, and the servants filed in, looking rather excited with
the stories they had been hearing. Mr. Wilmot read a psalm, in place of
the usual portion, and in his prayer he offered up earnest thanks for
the many lives spared that day.

Then Annie said good-bye, and went off to bed, and Mr. Wilmot moved
into his study.

A change once more passed over his face change from calm cheerfulness
to deep depression. He leant back in the easy-chair, placed a hand over
his eyes, and was silent.

The lamp burnt on by his side, and the house sank into profound
stillness. All but himself had retired to rest.

Nearly an hour passed, and he had not stirred. The striking of the
clock on the stairs aroused him. Eleven strokes, in slow musical
succession.

Mr. Wilmot stood up, and went to the window. He drew aside one of the
curtains, pulled up the blind, and gazed steadfastly at a starlit sky.

"If it is Thy will, O my Father!" he uttered aloud. "Thy will, not
mine. If it be Thy will! Father, I am ready."

A faint gleam passed over the upturned face.

"I would not choose for myself. Only fulfil Thy will in me—glorify Thy
Name. If Thou wiliest so to call me home—I am Thy servant,—Thy child."

Then a pause, and the head was bowed.

"Willing in heart, yet the flesh is weak. I cannot trust myself.
Willing to go with Thee to death; yet, for Christ's sake, if possible,
let this cup pass from me—if possible!"

Again he lifted his face.

"Father, I commend myself—spirit, soul, and body—into Thy hands. I am
Thine. I desire only to have Thy will wrought in me, through me. I dare
not choose. I am ready, Father,—ready, O my Lord and Master,—ready to
do or bear Thy will, to know no will but Thine. I roll my burden upon
Thee. Thou wilt comfort me."

And with a smile upon his pale lips, he passed upstairs to his bedroom,
there to fall peacefully asleep, and to dream of the "Everlasting Arms."



CHAPTER VI.

SUNDAY MORNING.

"YOU'D better! Sall, let that alone! What are you after, Will? Always
teasing somebody. I never did see such children for quarrelling and
mischief. Have done!"

Mrs. Gardiner dragged two struggling children apart, and shook them by
turns.

"Plaguing one another, and making baby cry! Now you'll just keep quiet
and hold your tongue, or you'll get it again."

This was the way in which Sunday morning began at Rose Cottage.

John Gardiner had not left his bed yet; nor Bess, the elder girl, who
earned enough in the factory to clothe herself and pay for her board,
and who counted herself at sixteen an independent young woman, free
from control. Jem, Sally, and Will ought to have been now starting
for the Sunday school; but dressing was barely accomplished, and
breakfast had not yet been thought of. Little Tom and the baby were in
night-dresses still; and Mrs. Gardiner hurried to and fro distractedly.

"Well, it's no good driving and scurrying," she said at length. "I
shall just keep you all at home to-day."

Sally and Will set up a shout of approval; and Jem only remarked, "We
shan't get tickets for the school-feast."

"If you like to eat a bit of bread quick, and have some milk and be
off, I'm sure I don't care," said Mrs. Gardiner.

And this was the saddest part of the matter, that neither parents nor
children cared. Even the thought of the school-feast did not decide Jem
to follow out his mother's suggestion.

With the coming of Sunday morning there came, in the Gardiner
household, no loving thoughts of the great Father in heaven; no wish to
worship at the footstool of the King; no desire to ask pardon of that
gentle Redeemer Who had shed His blood for them; no remembrance of the
Holy Spirit, Who is promised as a Divine Gift to every one that will
earnestly ask.

There was nothing of all this. John was only pleased to lie lazily
in bed the whole morning; and Betsy's thoughts were on the smoking
hot dinner which had to be provided. Bess, the elder girl, presently
appearing in a slovenly dress and curl-papers, busied herself with
putting some finishing touches to the gaudy cheap costume which she
meant to don later in the day; and the children played and quarrelled,
and thought how they might best find amusement.

Lounging! Eating! Dressing! Amusing themselves! This was the Gardiner
notion of how to keep Sunday.

The sweet Church bells might ring, ring, invitingly; but the Gardiners
could not reply, "I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into
the House of the Lord." They were only glad of an opportunity for
self-indulgence.

"Mother," Bess said in her rough careless tones, some minutes after
coming into the kitchen, "what sort of people have come next door?"

"How should I know?" Mrs. Gardiner asked. "They've only been here three
days."

"They look to me as stuck-up as possible," said Bess. "I don't believe
we shall like them."

"Well, I only know I wish you were more like that Dunn girl," said
Betsy Gardiner, with shortness. "She does treat her mother civilly; and
that's more than you do."

Bess gave her head a scornful toss.

"You weren't home till I don't know when night. And I know who you
were with, too. It's no good me interfering, for you won't stand it,
and you'll choose your own friends, whatever anybody says. But I can
tell you, Bess, if father hears you are taking up with those people,
there'll be a row. I know it quite well."

Bess's freckled face, with its light-coloured fringe, wore a very
unpleasant expression.

"The Jones' will board me any time I choose," she said proudly. "I
needn't stay here."

"And you'd leave your own home and go to strangers!" Mrs. Gardiner
burst into angry tears.

"The Jones' aren't strangers to me. I'm not going to be bothered and
meddled with, I can tell you, mother!"

Poor unhappy girl! And poor unhappy mother! Hot words passed between
the two, and Bess walked off in a huff, while Mrs. Gardiner sat and
cried.

What a contrast to this scene might have been found next door, only
just beyond the thin dividing wall.

Breakfast was over in good time; everybody having come down early,
looking clean, bright, and happy, in neat fresh attire. Dunn, wearing
his "Sunday best" suit, and also his "Sunday best" face of quiet
content, sat near the door, with Susie on his knee.

Usually Dick and Susie were off to Sunday school at this hour, but
having only just come to the place, they did not yet know about the
hours of school. True, Mr. Wilmot had called at Woodbine Cottage,
and as a rule his plan was to secure at once the children for Sunday
school. But there had been much to talk about in connection with
Nancy's narrow escape, and doubtless Mr. Wilmot's own mind had been
slightly pre-occupied. Somehow the subject had not been referred to.

"It don't matter for just once. We'll ask somebody at Church, and you
can both go in the afternoon," Susan Dunn said.

"I shouldn't wonder if there'll be a Bible Class I can go to as well,"
remarked Nancy, who was busily washing up the breakfast things. She had
quite recovered from the fright of her narrow escape, and was as rosy
and pretty as ever.

"Shouldn't wonder if there is," said Dunn. "You'll miss your old class,
my girl."

"Yes, father, very much," the girl said, with a sigh. "And a good many
things beside."

But she was much too busy to stand still, and indulge melancholy
recollections.

Sometimes, when they could manage it, the Dunns all went to Church
together in the morning, Dunn contenting himself with a cold Sunday
dinner, that Susan might be free; and that was the plan for to-day.
Susan always took care that he should have something extra nice,
though cold, in return for this self-denial; and the vegetables, being
prepared beforehand, were cooked after their return.

Now and then they would all go together in the evening also. If Dick
or Susie seemed tired, however, or disinclined for the second service,
then Susan or Nancy would remain at home. The children were really too
young for both services, in addition to Sunday school, yet they often
begged to go. For they had been brought up to look upon Church-going
not only as a duty, but as a happiness. And though there was much that
they could not understand, yet they did clearly understand that people
came together in Church for the purpose of united worship and praise of
God, and united prayer for others as well as for themselves.

These thoughts must surely have been in Dunn's mind as he sat with
Susie on his knee, and Dick by his side; for after hearing the two
repeat some hymns, he said suddenly—

"We shan't be in the old Church to-day, Susie. But we shall all be
doing the same here as they'll be doing there—saying the very same
words to God. It's nice to think of."

"Will we have the same hymns, father?" asked Susie.

"No, that's not likely. But the same prayers. It's wonderful to
remember the thousands and thousands who'll be asking the very same
things of God presently all through England, and in many other parts of
the world."

"And God always hears, don't He, father?" little Dick observed.

"He always hears real prayer, Dick. I'm afraid there's lots of people
go to Church who let the clergyman say the prayers, and don't join in
themselves,—don't really mean to ask anything of God. And some even say
the words aloud, and never think of the sense. But that's not prayer at
all."

"I do try to think," said Susie. "Only there's a lot of words I can't
understand."

"Well, you needn't try to pray what you don't understand, Susie. You're
such a little thing yet. And there's one prayer you always know when it
comes,—'Our Father, which art in Heaven.'"

"Isn't it a good thing that comes so often?" said Dick. "That's the
prayer the Lord Jesus made for us, isn't it, father?"

"For us and for everybody," said Dunn.

Dick looked thoughtful.

"And the more you try, the more you'll understand the other prayers,
too," said Dunn. "It isn't hard when something comes about asking God
to forgive us all our sins and naughtinesses, for Jesus' sake; and
when we ask God to bless the Queen, and to help people who are sick
and unhappy. Why, there's lots of things even you and Dick can pray in
Church, like the rest of the people, Susie. And most commonly, there's
one hymn, at least, that you can join in."



CHAPTER VII.

GOING TO CHURCH.

ARCHIE STUART did not always trouble himself to go to Church on Sunday
mornings. His mother commonly stayed in, cooking a hot dinner for him;
and she liked Archie to go with her in the evening.

Mrs. Stuart was one who considered a certain amount of religion to be
respectable, and, as she would have said, "due to herself." What might
be due to God did not much enter into her thoughts. She liked to be
seen in Church once every Sunday, wearing her neat Sunday dress and
best bonnet; and she liked her boy Archie to be there also, wearing his
best suit. She had been brought up to go to Church, and she counted
it proper and decorous to continue the habits in which she had been
brought up.

If Archie had wished to go in the morning also, Mrs. Stuart would have
made no particular objection; but she took no pains to encourage him in
so doing. So, not unnaturally, after leaving Sunday school, and when
beginning to look upon himself as a man, Archie fell into the ways of
too many around.

Though far from lazy in other respects, he did not at all object to an
extra two or three hours in bed every Sunday; and after coming down to
a late breakfast, he felt often much more disposed for a country ramble
than for Church.

On this particular Sunday morning, Archie had not at all made up his
mind what to do. It was not yet quite a regular habit with him to
stay away every Sunday morning, though fast becoming so; and perhaps
Archie's own narrow escape from the mad dog during the past week had
disposed him to unusually serious thought.

"Going for a walk, I suppose?" his mother said, seeing him ready to
start.

"Well—yes—I suppose so," Archie answered hesitatingly.

He had been on the point of getting his Prayer-book; but somehow Mrs.
Stuart's words and manner checked him. If he said he meant to go to
Church, his mother would be sure to ask why, and Archie could not have
told her why, for he did not know it himself.

So he started with a resolve to have his walk as usual; yet, instead of
going towards the country, he went in the direction of the Church. "One
way's as good as another," he said to himself.

Then, suddenly, after turning a corner, he found the whole family of
Dunns proceeding leisurely churchwards; Richard Dunn and his wife
together, and in front Nancy, looking very sweet and modest, in her
dark dress and straw bonnet, and the two children, one on each side of
her.

"Fine day," Dunn said, as Archie came up.

"Very fine," responded Archie. "Just what the farmers are wanting now."

Nancy stopped to speak to him, quite simply and naturally. She did not
blush, or seem to be thinking about herself, but only said, "We have
been wanting so to thank you again for what you did that day."

"Yes, I thought you'd have been to see us by this time," remarked
Dunn. "Come along with us, lad; unless your mother's waiting for you
anywhere."

"No, she don't go in the morning," said Archie. Honesty prompted him to
add, "I don't either—most commonly. She and I go of an evening."

"Come with us to-day," suggested Dunn again.

"I don't mind if I do," said Archie. "Only I haven't got a Prayer-book."

"We're close home. Dick 'll run back for one,—mother's old one, Dick.
It's on the book-case."

"You won't mind having my old one?" asked Susan. "Nancy and the
children gave me a new one my last birthday,—look, isn't it a beauty?"
And she unfolded a sheltering silk handkerchief. "I shouldn't like to
lend that. But my old one's quite tidy."

Dick ran off at once, and overtook them close to the Church door.

It was a large building with lofty pillars; and low open seats,
all free; and a good organ, the gift of Dunn's new employer, Mr.
Rawdon. Mr. Wilmot read well, in clear reverent tones; and the
congregation—largely composed of working-men and their families—joined
heartily in the responses. There was plenty of singing, a good choir
taking the lead; but the congregation did not sit or stand and idly
listen to the choir. Mr. Wilmot was very particular about having
well-known simple tunes, and he often impressed upon his people the
duty of every one in Church taking an active personal share in the
public worship of God.

So a more hearty yet reverent service could hardly have been found.

After the second hymn, Mr. Wilmot stood up in the pulpit,—looking pale
still, some thought,—and gave out his text twice over, in far-reaching
tones:

   "St. Luke xxii. 33: 'Lord, I am ready to go with Thee, both into
prison and to death.'"



CHAPTER VIII.

THE OLD MOTTO.

MR. WILMOT'S sermon was short. Parts of it, curtailed, were as follows:—

"There is an old English motto, my friends, which has been lately often
in my mind—a short motto, of three words only—

   "'READY, AYE READY!'

"Now you scarcely need that I should tell you the meaning of this motto.

"Ready for what? Why, ready, of course, for anything and everything
which may come in the way of one's duty.

"The true-hearted soldier is 'ready, aye ready' to go where bidden,
even to death. The true-hearted servant is 'ready, aye ready' to do his
master's desire, careless of trouble or weariness. The true-hearted
child is 'ready, aye ready' to accept or bear whatever his father wills
for him. The true-hearted man or woman is 'ready, aye ready' to risk or
suffer aught in the cause of needy and suffering men and women.

"This spirit of readiness is not rare in the present day; and
especially it is not rare in our own land. You may say that the age
is a selfish age; and so has been every age, for mankind is a selfish
race. Nevertheless, there are in these days thousands who hold
themselves 'ready, aye ready' to do and dare, for the sake of loved
ones, for the sake of their country,—nay, that is not surprising, but
more than this—for the sake of all those who are in need, in peril,
in extremity, and unable to help themselves. Look at the records of
shipwrecks; look at the records of mines; look at the records of
