"Ready to do, ready to dare, ready to endure, ready to risk life
itself, for the sake of others. It is something to be able to say so
much. And mark all of you what I say, this would not now be, but for
the life and example and teaching of Him who was 'ready, aye ready' to
quit His glorious throne in heaven, that He might die a fearful death,
as Man, for a ruined world. All that we see around us of benevolence,
of pity, of tenderness, of self-denial, has been taught to mankind by
Jesus, the Son of God.

"I do not say that no gleams of tenderness are to be found in the
natural heart of man. A heathen wife or mother may love her husband or
child; a heathen may shrink from the sight of suffering. But if you
would learn what man is by nature, you must look at heathendom in the
mass. Look at those lands where the Name of Christ is unknown, and
see the awful abounding cruelty, the recklessness of human life, the
wholesale murder of infants, the slavery of women, the contempt for
others' distress, the neglect of the sick and dying, the utter rampant
selfishness.

"Look then at our own land, and see the hospitals, the orphanages,
the immense and countless charitable organisations, the eagerness of
thousands to 'spend and be spent' for those who are in need. These are
no mere fruits of civilisation. You may search in vain for any such
results of the finest pagan civilisations of olden days. These things
are the fruits of Christianity.

"So widespread, so far-reaching, is the influence of the Spirit of
Jesus,—of His pity, His self-forgetfulness, His love for men, His
tenderness towards suffering,—that thousands who care little about
Christ are yet so impregnated from babyhood with lessons of Christian
love and pity, that they will themselves do Christ-like deeds, deeds
of pity and love and humanity, utterly unknowing whence this spirit of
kindliness in them is derived.

"But now we have to think of something far beyond mere kind and humane
intentions towards those around us.

"'Lord, I am ready,' Peter said, with his eager warm-hearted utterance,
'ready to go with Thee both into prison and to death.'

"And he was not really ready. He thought himself so; but when the test
of peril came, he failed. He was 'ready, aye ready,' in will; but weak
in act. Trusting, perhaps, in his own readiness, his own love for
Christ, instead of trusting only in his Master's power, and in that
Master's love for him, he failed. He was one of those who at the moment
of darkness 'forsook' Jesus, 'and fled.'

"Yet Peter went far beyond too many of us. For he did at least wish to
be thus 'ready.' His aim was to do always and unflinchingly the will of
Christ.

"A grander example of this 'ready' spirit is to be found in the life of
St. Paul.

"Look at Acts xxi. 13,—'I am ready not to be bound only, but also
to die at Jerusalem for the Name of the Lord Jesus.' And again, in
2 Timothy iv. 6,—'I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my
departure is at hand.'

"He was ready. No vain boast this, but a calm certainty. St. Paul was
bound, and did die,—not at Jerusalem, but at Rome,—for that Master whom
he loved and served. During long years of toil and trouble, he had held
himself always 'ready, aye ready' to go here or there, to do this or
that, which his Lord might command. And now he was ready to be bound,
ready to die,—without a thought of reluctance or of holding back.

"Most of us are ready enough to follow our own inclinations. How many a
one among us all now gathered in this Church holds himself habitually,
day by day and hour by hour, in a position of calm willing readiness to
do the will of God?

"Look at a verse in 2 Samuel xv. 15,—'And the king's servants said unto
the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever any lord the
king shall appoint.'

"Which of you will stand and say that from your very heart to the Lord
your King?—'Master, I am ready to do whatsoever Thou shalt appoint.'

"Whatsoever! That allows no choice to self, no indulgence of self's
fancies, no habits of laziness, no mere life of pleasure with the
smallest possible amount of real work. O no: it means a very different
kind of existence—toil cheerfully undertaken, hardship and suffering
patiently borne, sin met and conquered, self subdued.

"Will some of you say that such a life of absolute readiness to carry
out another's will must be a life of slavery?

"Nay! For unto love there is no slavery; and we who serve the Lord
Christ love Him. St. Peter's readiness was the readiness of love; and
so also was St. Paul's.

"Is it slavery which makes a mother willing to toil, to endure, to
forget herself, to die, if needful, for her child? Is it not love alone?

"Look at the other side of the question. If not servants to the King
of kings, standing always ready to do whatsoever He shall appoint,
whose servants will you be? Satan's? Is there anything grand in
the subjection of a man to the Evil One? Your own? But the most
contemptible of all contemptible sights is the man who is a slave to
his own will and passions!

"I tell you there is no loftier or grander life lived on earth, than
the life of the man who holds himself a willing bond-servant to the
King of kings. That man is free indeed,—free from the tyranny of Satan,
free from the tyranny of self, free with the glorious freedom of
Christ. Whether he be king or labourer, prince or tradesman, matters
little. Once enrolled in the service of the King, yielding himself
and his all to the King, accepted and pardoned by the King, signed
with the King's own signet, he is thenceforth himself of the heavenly
blood-royal.

"'Ready to do whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint.' He may
appoint us something painful, something sad, something from which
heart and flesh shall shrink,—but what then? Has He not the right? He
has bought us with His Blood. He loves us, and knows what is needful
for us. And we are bound to His Service,—aye, bound whether we will
or no,—bound as His children by creation, bound as His purchased
possession, bound by Baptismal promises, bound by Confirmation
vows. He would have you bound by one more tie,—the tie of willing
heart-servitude,—not to be servants only, but children by adoption,
children of the Father, 'heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ,'
led by His Spirit, obedient to His will.

"There must be the blood-washing. There must be the heart-readiness.
There must be the use of all appointed means of grace. There must be
acceptance of the King's free gifts.

"Then, whatever the King may appoint for you, whether suffering or joy,
whether work or waiting, whether life or death, from Him shall come the
needed grace, the needed strength. Not like St. Peter, but like St.
Paul, you shall be in very heart and in very deed,—

   "Ready, aye Ready!"



CHAPTER IX.

ARCHIE'S MOTHER.

"THAT'S a preacher of the right sort," Dunn said warmly, as they left
the Churchyard. "He speaks right from his own heart, and straight to
ours. I like your Mr. Wilmot, Stuart; that I do!"

"I'm sure it's a comfort to have such a Church to go to in a new
place," added Susan.

The two children were alone in front, pacing quietly together. Dunn
walked between his wife and Nancy, and Archie had managed adroitly to
place himself on Nancy's other side.

"I don't know that I've seen things just in that light before," Archie
remarked hesitatingly. "Mr. Wilmot seemed to make out religion to be a
manly sort of thing. And there's a good many who count it—"

"Count it womanish and namby-pamby, eh?" Dunn said, as Archie stopped.
"I'll tell you one, thing, lad, which you may as well remember. If
ever you see a feeble namby-pamby sort of fellow trying to serve God,
you may be quite sure it isn't his religion that makes him so. He'd be
a deal more feeble and namby-pamby if he didn't serve God. Fighting
against evil and striving to do what's right, don't make any man less
manly than he is by nature. It makes a man more manly. But it don't
work a miracle, and turn a dull man into a clever man, nor a puling
weak sort of chap into a strong spirited one."

"I don't know, though, as I could quite hold with what Mr. Wilmot
said," observed Archie. "I mean about a man giving up himself to be a
sort of slave to God's will. A man likes to feel he's free."

Nancy's eyes gave a quick look up at Archie, and then at her father.

"A man is free—in one sense," said Dunn. "God made man free,—gave him a
will of his own, and power to choose what he'll do and be. But there's
a deal of clap-trap talked about freedom and independence: for after
all there's no man living who stands altogether alone, and don't depend
on others. And more than that, there's no man living who don't choose
for himself a master. Mr. Wilmot spoke true enough there. It was a
command to the Israelite people of old,—'Choose ye whom ye will serve.'
For they were morally sure to serve somebody; and it's the same now."

Archie made a sound of dissent.

"Think not? Why, look around you," said Dunn. "One man's a slave to
money; and another's a slave to drink; and another's a slave to evil
habits; and another's a slave to bad temper; and most of them are
slaves to self. And everybody who don't own Christ for his Master is
under the dominion of the Evil One. Is that freedom, I wonder?"

Archie was silent.

"A soldier gives himself up to the service of his Queen,—does it
willingly,—and then he's bound just to go where he's bid, and to do
what he's told, and to fight for his Queen and country whenever the
command comes. But you don't count that slavery, eh, lad?"

"Well, I'll think about what you say," observed Archie, standing still.
"I've got to turn off here. Mother 'll be expecting me. It's very good
of you to let me go to Church with you all, and I'm glad I went."

"That's a nice young fellow," Dunn observed, when Archie was out of
hearing.

"It seems to me odd his mother shouldn't have been in to see us yet,"
Susan said. "I did think at first I must go right off and thank her for
what her boy did for our Nannie. But when I said something of the sort
to him, I could see at once he didn't want it. What sort of a woman
used she to be?"

"She used to take a sort of pride in keeping herself to herself," said
Dunn.

Susan shook her head slightly, and remarked: "Well, I'm not one to push
myself on her, anyway."

Nancy said nothing. She was not much of a talker at any time.

Meanwhile Archie strode home at a brisk pace, and found dinner just
ready, and Mrs. Stuart in her best gown and cap, looking very tall,
starched, upright, clean, and solemn.

She greeted him with a short,—"You're late to-day."

Archie knew in a moment that something had happened in his absence to
annoy her.

"I went to Church," he said.

"That's a new notion," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Well, I didn't see why I shouldn't. I do go sometimes—in the morning,
I mean."

"Four months since last time," she rejoined sarcastically.

"I suppose you've nothing to say against it, if I like to go once in
a while, morning as well as evening?" observed Archie, his own tone
growing somewhat tart.

"What made you like to go to-day?"

Archie had no immediate answer to give. Mrs. Stuart was dishing up, and
the talk was in abeyance for some minutes. When they were both seated,
and Archie had made some way through a large helping of roast beef
and vegetables, she began again where they had left off, wording her
question differently,—

"Who got you to go to Church to-day?"

"I'd thought of going before," said Archie.

"And left your Prayer-book behind?"

"Well, yes,—I hadn't made up my mind," said Archie.

"Who made it up for you, I should like to know?"

Archie was sure by this time that somebody had seen him with the Dunns,
and had reported the fact to Mrs. Stuart.

"I met some friends going, and I went with them," he said, with assumed
carelessness. "I don't see why I'm to be catechised like this, mother,
as if I was in my pinafores still! One would think I'd done something
wicked."

Mrs. Stuart's long nose became pinched, and her thin lips grew rigid.

"What friends?" she demanded.

"Only the Dunns."

A pause followed. Archie glanced up once or twice from his plate to
Mrs. Stuart's face.

"There's no harm if I did go with the Dunns, or anybody else," he
continued. "They're out-and-out nice people; and Dunn's a really good
fellow, if ever there was one. I'm sure of it. There's lots of things
he can talk about."

Silence answered him. Mrs. Stuart helped herself to another potato, and
disposed of it in four big gulps, as a relief to her feelings.

"I haven't been to see them again, because I knew you wanted me not.
But they've been expecting me; and they must count it odd you not
going. I do think you might, when Dunn knew father, and all! And when
I want it too! Anyway, I'm old enough to choose my friends. If it was
a bad sort of friends I'd got hold of, things would be different. But
people like the Dunns,—I can't see why on earth you should mind."

Mrs. Stuart avoided looking at her son.

"I didn't know I should meet them, of course; but I did. It wasn't
likely I should pass them by. I'd had thoughts of going to Church;
and when Dunn asked me, I didn't see why I shouldn't. They lent me a
Prayer-book."

Mrs. Stuart went on eating solemnly, her eyes downcast.

Archie had a temper as well as his mother: not a sullen temper like
hers, but sometimes a hot one. He was very good-humoured up to a
certain point; but he could be roused; and her manner was irritating.

"If you don't mean to speak to me about them, mother, I shan't speak of
them to you neither," he said. "And another time you needn't catechise
me,—that's all. I'm not a baby to be kept in leading-strings."

Still no reply. Archie bolted the remainder of his big helping, pushed
back his chair, and stood up.

"Well, if I'm not to have civil words here, I'll go where I can get
them," he said, in a passion.

Mrs. Stuart did not look up, but she said coldly,—"You're not going to
those Dunns?"

"I don't see why not. Mrs. Dunn won't treat me like this, anyway."

Archie lingered for two or three seconds near the door. Even in his fit
of anger, he knew himself to be acting wrongly. He really did not wish
to grieve or trouble his mother. She had been a good mother to him, and
Archie could not but know it. He had good reason to be grateful and
forbearing, even apart from the fact that she was his mother. Archie,
of course, did not fully know how much he owed to her: young people
seldom do. Nevertheless, he waited, hoping she might say some little
word which should make it easy for him to come back to the table. Truth
to tell, he would not have objected to so doing, since he was hungry
still.

No such word came, however. Mrs. Stuart rose, and stalked with long
offended strides towards the fireplace.

"Mother!" Archie said hesitatingly.

Mrs. Stuart looked round. "Oh, you're not gone yet!" she said, though
she had been aware of the fact before.

Archie walked off at once, and banged the front door. Mrs. Stuart saw
him pass the window.

A change came over her face then. The thin nose began to work, and the
thin lips to tremble. She had not expected Archie to take her at her
word. Though Mrs. Stuart was a proud woman, with a cold manner and a
bad temper, yet down below she had a loving heart towards this only boy.

Al! the morning she had been working for him; and in the oven now were
the rice pudding and the fruit tart which he liked.

Mrs. Stuart was wounded to the very quick. It seemed so hard that he
should turn against her, only for the sake of these new people, almost
strangers to her. She did not want to know the Dunns. She looked
upon their standing as inferior to her own; and Mrs. Stuart was a
proud-spirited woman, very particular as to whom she would associate
with. Moreover, there was a girl at Woodbine Cottage—a pretty winning
girl. People had not been backward in talking about Nancy's looks, and
about Archie Stuart's evident admiration. That was just the thing which
Mrs. Stuart most feared. She wanted to keep her boy to herself for many
a year to come.

A neighbour had run in before dinner to gossip about the matter, having
seen from her window Archie's encounter with the Dunn family on their
way to Church.

"And you may depend upon it, things won't stop there," the neighbour
had been so kind as to add. "Archie's a likely young fellow, and he'll
be easy caught; and Mrs. Dunn's a woman that knows what she's about."

This was enough for Mrs. Stuart, and she gave her caller very plainly
to understand that nothing of the kind ever would or should come to
pass. Archie was not going to marry anybody yet awhile, and most
certainly he was not going to marry Nancy Dunn.

Poor Mrs. Stuart! She had never yet learnt that difficult lesson, which
almost all have sooner or later to learn—that we cannot have our own
way in life, either for ourselves or for others.



CHAPTER X.

TEMPERS.

IF Archie had been a little less angry, I do not think he would have
seriously entertained the idea of going to Woodbine Cottage that
afternoon, despite his threat. For it was not commonly his way to run
straight in the teeth of his mother's wishes.

But being for once thoroughly vexed, he marched off in that direction,
determined to assert his independence.

When near the cottage, it occurred to him that the Dunns would not yet
have finished their dinner. So he went for a good round first, walking
fast, and doing his best to keep up his indignation at fever-heat.

This proved not quite easy. Archie could get into a passion, and could
say or do angry words or deeds; but he never could remain long annoyed.
Mrs. Stuart, after being vexed, would spend hours in a sullen mood. Not
so Archie. He never could sulk.

By the time he had performed a certain round, and was drawing once
more near to Woodbine Cottage, he began to wonder whether he really
would go in. He did not like to remember his mother sitting alone
at home,—alone, and doubtless unhappy. The thought made him feel
uncomfortable. What if he were to return, and try to put her into a
better humour?

But perhaps, if he did, she would still refuse to speak. Or if she
spoke, she might insist on his promising never to see the Dunns.

"No, no; I'm not going to do that," Archie said, almost aloud.

Then, looking up, he found himself close to the gate of Woodbine
Cottage; and he saw Dunn issuing therefrom, with a little boy and girl,
one on each side of him.

"How d'ye do again?" Dunn said kindly. "I'm off with these young 'uns
to the Sunday school. It's their first time of going, and they're a
morsel shy,—eh, Dick and Susie?"

"I'm not shy," asserted Dick; "I could take care of Susie."

"So you could, I don't doubt; but Susie don't think so. You'll find my
wife inside, if you've a thought of going in," added Dunn to Archie.

"Well, I did half think of it," said Archie hesitatingly. "She told me
to come some time, you know."

"So she did, lad,—you're quite right. We're not much of folks for
gadding in and out of neighbours' houses all Sunday; but you're
different to anybody and everybody. You've made your self, in a sort,
one of us. She will be glad enough to see you, I make no doubt. Come
along, Susie and Dick,—we mustn't be late. Yes, yes; go in, Stuart."

And Archie went,—not fully resolved yet in his own mind, but hardly
knowing now how to get out of it.

Susan Dunn herself opened the door, and led Archie into the cosy
parlour, which was always used on Sundays. But Nancy was not there, as
Archie had expected and hoped. A book lay open on the table, and Susan
had plainly been alone, reading.

"Sit down, won't you?" she said, in a kind manner. "I'm so glad to see
you here at last. You meant to come before, didn't you? My husband's
gone to see the children to Sunday school. It's a new place to them,
and Susie was afraid. And Nannie's gone to the Rectory. She wanted to
hear of a Bible class on Sunday afternoons, that she could go to; and
I asked Mr. Wilmot this morning if there wasn't one. I met him just a
little while before we all came on you, and I asked him, and he said
Nannie was to go and talk it over with Miss Wilmot. We are glad of
that, for somebody told us Miss Wilmot was a very sweet young lady."

"Yes, so she is," observed Archie. "She comes to see mother once in a
way."

Susan looked at Archie, then out of the window, then back again at
Archie.

"Your mother don't come to see me?" she said at length.

Archie reddened somewhat. "I wish she would, Mrs. Dunn. I've tried my
best. I can't get her to come."

"Don't she want to know us?"

Archie said "No," involuntarily. Then it struck him that perhaps Susan
might feel conscientiously bound to carry out Mrs. Stuart's wish, and
might cease to encourage his calling at Woodbine Cottage. "It doesn't
mean anything," he added in some haste. "Mother's got her own notions,
you see; and if she's said a thing, she sticks to it like a leech.
She's got her friends, and I've got mine. We pull along pretty well
together. Sometimes she's angry, and won't speak to me,—like to-day.
But it's not worth bothering about. She's always sure to come round
after a while."

"Has she been vexed to-day?" asked Susan, with a look of trouble and
pity.

"Oh, it's her way, you know," Archie said, assuming a careless air.
"She don't mean anything by it, and I don't take it for more than it's
worth. She wouldn't say a word to me at dinner, so I just walked off
and left her alone. Oh, she'll come round."

Susan was evidently distressed. "I wouldn't," she said in an
undertone,—"I wouldn't do that,—not again."

"But I couldn't sit it out. Nobody could," protested Archie.

"She didn't mean anything by it. You say that yourself," pleaded Susan.
"And she's your mother, and she's been a good mother to you,—hasn't
she? I wouldn't leave her to sit alone, Archie,—may I call you Archie?"

"Yes, do, please," put in Archie.

"I wouldn't leave her there alone,—I wouldn't really," said Susan
again, chiming in with the remonstrances of the young man's own heart.

"Well, I won't," said Archie, after a pause. "I'll go back presently,
and see if she won't like a walk."

"Yes, do. That'll be nice," said Susan. "And if she's put out once in a
way, I wouldn't be put out too! I daresay she's had a deal of trouble
to fight against, and that don't always smooth the temper."

"Well, yea, she's had troubles," admitted Archie. "And she's got
a temper too, no mistake about that. And she'd like to keep me in
leading-strings still, as if I was six years old."

"You're not in leading-strings," said Susan, with a little smile. "But
I do think you're bound to do all you can to please her."

Archie said, "I s'pose so," not very cheerfully. He did not mean to
count himself bound to shun the Dunns. He liked them increasingly, and
he lingered on, hoping for one more glimpse of Nancy. The lingering was
in vain, for Nancy did not appear, and presently Susan said, "I don't
like to seem to hurry you. But won't your mother get impatient?"

"Well, p'raps she will," admitted Archie. Thereupon, he said good-bye,
and walked off.



CHAPTER XI.

"MY ONLY BOY!"

MRS. STUART felt her loneliness more than she would have liked to
say, and very bitter and sorrowful grew her spirit, as time went by
and Archie appeared not. She could not read, could not employ herself,
could not turn her mind to any other subject. She would not go out, for
fear Archie might return to find her gone.

"It would serve him right," she told herself; and once she rose and put
her bonnet on, determined to punish him. But resolution failed there,
and she took it off and sat down again.

So the minutes dragged slowly past, and Mrs. Stuart watched in weary
solitude; and her face fell into a sad dreary set, which anybody must
have been grieved to see.

Suddenly a brisk footstep could be heard without. Mrs. Stuart stirred
out of her stooping postures and was in one moment stiffly upright.
She wiped hastily away the traces of two tears which had insisted on
having their way, and hardened her features into an expression of cold
indifference. Archie should not know what she had suffered. If he did
not care to be with her, she would not seem to care about being with
him.

"Well, mother?" Archie spoke in a bright voice as he entered, for he
wanted to make a pleasant impression. "Like to have a walk with me?"

Mrs. Stuart made no answer. She would not look at Archie, but stood up,
stalked to a drawer, pulled out a duster, and began polishing a corner
of the small bookshelf, which needed no polishing.

"Come, mother! Now you're not going to be vexed with me still,"
expostulated Archie. "There's no need. Let's have a walk and forget it."

Mrs. Stuart went on with her polishing industriously, just as if she
had not heard a word.

"Of course if you don't want me, I can be off again," said Archie, in
a rather aggrieved tone. "But I should think you might as well forgive
and forget. I'm sorry now that I went away in such a hurry from dinner.
And I do think you've been angry long enough."

Mrs. Stuart faced round upon Archie.

"Where have you been all this while?" she demanded.

"I went for a walk, mother, first."

"And after that?"

"I just went in for a little chat with Mrs. Dunn. But I didn't stay
long. She wouldn't let me stay. She told me I'd ought to come back to
you; so I've come."

Mrs. Stuart's thin nostrils began to quiver.

"I'm much beholden to Mrs. Dunn," she said hoarsely. "So I'm to have my
boy's company at the bidding of a stranger! That's it, is it? Not as he
cares to be with his mother! O no, I quite understand all about it now!
And all I've got to say is, that if you don't want to be here, I don't
want to have you. So there! You'd best go back to Mrs. Dunn, and stay
there till bedtime. Why shouldn't you? I don't care whether you go or
stay. I'm not going to have you come to me just at Mrs. Dunn's bidding."

She did not mean it, of course; people seldom do mean what they say
in a passion. She did care very much—even terribly. It went to her
heart to have this difference with her boy. But pride and temper were
stronger than love. They had been allowed to grow rampant during many
long years of indulgence; and the gentler plant of love was well-nigh
choked by these great rank weeds. So bitter was her tone, so severe was
her manner, that Archie at the moment believed her words. He looked
strangely at Mrs. Stuart, growing almost pale.

"Very well, mother!" he said, husky in his turn. "If you don't want
me, I'll go. I'm sure I shan't bother you, against your will. I'll go
somewhere, though it won't be to the Dunns. And you needn't look for me
till bedtime." Archie stopped, hesitating. "If you mean it," he added.

"It isn't my way to say one thing and mean another," retorted Mrs.
Stuart. "May be the way of your friends, the Dunns,—likely enough! A
set of—"

"Mother, you'd better not! You don't know them!" broke in Archie.

"I know enough about 'em," she said scornfully. "Trying to wheedle you
away from me—you that I've just lived for! I know all about it! But I
don't mean to say no more. You'll do as you choose. And if you don't
want to stay, I don't mean to have you just at Mrs. Dunn's bidding, nor
that spoony-faced chit of a girl's neither."

Archie broke into one angry utterance, and then he was gone—this time
with a heavy unmistakable bang of the front door. Mrs. Stuart could see
him striding past the window, not towards Woodbine Cottage, but the
other way.

Would he come back? Might he not think better of his annoyance, and
return? She had not meant him to take her at her word. She had not
intended really to send him from her. Was it only the allusion to Nancy
Dunn which he would not endure? Mrs. Stuart's face grew rigid at this
thought.

She stood very long near the window, watching and waiting. Then she
sat down, and watched and waited still. The afternoon wore away, and
tea-time approached. Mrs. Stuart laid the table, and put the kettle on
to boil; but she could not resolve to sit down alone to eat and think;
and Archie did not come.

"I've driven him away," she murmured at length. "And he's my only boy."

Time went on, and by-and-by the Church bells began to ring. Would
Archie not reappear in time for Church? He had always gone with her.

Mrs. Stuart made herself a cup of tea, and drank it off feverishly.
It was of no use to think of eating. Then she dressed, putting on her
boots and her best shawl and bonnet. Just at the last moment he would
run in—having had tea doubtless somewhere else.

But the last moment came, and with it no Archie. The bells had ceased
chiming, and the last five minutes' tinkle had come to an end. Mrs.
Stuart stood waiting still.

Suddenly she came to a resolution. She would go and try to find her
boy. Why had she not started sooner on this errand? The two had been
parted long enough. Mrs. Stuart meant to forgive him now, and to take
him back into favour. As for the Dunns, that matter must settle itself
somehow. It was not her intention to give way about them; but, on the
other hand, she could not forego her boy's companionship. She had had a
lesson against pulling the reins too sharply.

"I'll find him and bring him back," she murmured. "I mustn't drive him
away. He's getting masterful—not a child any longer, and I mustn't
forget that."

And she started on the search, her mother's heart all unstrung and
aching with the strain of the afternoon, her whole soul going out in a
passionate longing for the boy she so loved.

Yet, if Archie had that moment walked up with a smile, I am not at
all sure whether her features would not have stiffened instantly with
cold disdain, and whether she might not have turned her back upon him
straightway.