"If Nannie's to be the one who can help you to what's right, I'm not
the woman to hinder," she said, with a touch of huskiness. "Seems to me
it may be God's will for you both. But look here, Bess. You've got to
make your choice. You can't do both, you know. If you want to be in and
out here, and to learn from my Nannie, you'll have to leave your bad
companions, and drop your old ways. There's to be no bad words spoken,
and no taking of God's Holy Name in vain, and no saying of things which
a pure-minded girl shouldn't hear. And you'll have to stop going about
in that sort of dress I saw you in last Sunday. I wouldn't have my
Nannie seen in the street with a girl dressed like that—no, not for
anything you could mention. I'm not speaking unkindly; but I do mean
what I say. You've had your old friends, and you've gone on in their
ways. If Nannie's to be your friend now, you'll have to take to new
ways."

Bess's low brow was frowning anxiously.

"I'd do anything," she said; "anything you'll tell me. And I mean it.
I told mother I'd go right off and board with them Joneses, because
father did storm at me so. And I won't now."

"No," Susan said, in decisive tones. "It's the Joneses or Nancy. Not
both."

Bess shook her head.

"Couldn't be both," she assented. "But my! Won't they be at me!"

"It won't be an easy time for you," said Susan gravely, "It never is,
when a girl tries to leave evil and turn to good. And mind, Bess, it
isn't only just a leaving off of one thing or another that you've
got to think of. That's not enough. You'll have to be whole and
thorough—give yourself up to serve God, and do His will. For if you
haven't His Power to keep you straight, nothing else 'll be of much
use."

"Parson said so too," Bess remarked briefly. "He stopped me one day,
and I jeered, and he had his say out and never minded. I've thought of
it a many times since."

"What did he tell you, Bess?" asked Nancy.

Bess was in difficulties. She evidently retained no clear recollection
of the words spoken. Yet, as evidently, a distinct impression had
been made. By dint of questioning, Susan came a vague remembrance of
"something about God caring."

"And he said I just hadn't ought to go on a-troubling of Him with my
bad ways," added Bess. "Him as was nailed up on the Cross. I didn't
know nothing about it troubling Him before. And I thought—maybe—Nancy
'ud tell me what to do."



CHAPTER XX.

TROUBLE.

"THERE's something wrong with Mr. Wilmot!" Other people, besides Mrs.
Mason, were saying this as the summer went on.

Annie was slower to perceive the alteration in him than were many. For
one thing, he did his best to keep up in her presence, fearing to awake
his darling's anxiety. For another, she was young still, and had seen
little of illness. Moreover, she was extremely busy in the Parish, and
was by no means given to conjuring up troubles.

Conjuring was, however, in this matter no longer needed, for a very
real trouble lay already to hand.

The change in Mr. Wilmot had become patent to all who knew him.
A laboured and languid gait replaced the old brisk walk; a fixed
perpetual pallor replaced the old healthy sunburn. If he had to ascend
a little slope, he stood still often to pant for breath. The exertion
of preaching would bring visible drops of moisture to his brow; and
not seldom the once clear and ringing tones were inaudible to half his
congregation.

Yet with this appearance of weakness, there existed an unusual
brightness, and this it was chiefly which helped to blind Annie's eyes.

For a while, in the earlier part of the summer, she and many others had
thought him unwontedly grave and depressed. The gravity and depression
were gone now, utterly. Never had his eyes shone with so calm a light,
never had his smile been so full of sunshine. There were some who noted
in his look and bearing a strange unearthliness—noted it with mingled
awe and fear. Yet they could not have told wherein it consisted; for
even while they noted it, and thought him worn and altered, his laugh
would break out in all its old gaiety, as he paused to speak to some
little child. And how the children loved him!

Annie's eyes remained long strangely shut. She thought him tired
unusually often, but the hot summer seemed to account for this.
By-and-by, he would take his autumn holiday, and that would set all
right.

But there came a day of awakening—sudden and unexpected.

She had had her Bible class as usual one Sunday afternoon, with the
half-dozen girls who regularly came to the Rectory for that purpose. It
was a very interesting hour commonly to them all; not least so to Nancy
Dunn, who by this time loved Miss Wilmot dearly. This day's lesson
proved certainly not less interesting than usual.

Annie had chosen the subject of trouble, and of how to bear trouble.
She had talked it over with her father beforehand, and she had much to
say about the bright side of trouble, the often good effects of it, and
the spirit in which it should be borne.

"I dare say some of you remember that sermon of my father's about being
always ready," Annie said, in the course of the class.

Nancy smiled a response.

"Perhaps we haven't any of us just now any great troubles to bear—only
just little every-day ones. But the great troubles may come at any
time; and when they do, we ought to be ready. I suppose there is
only one way of being really ready, and that is,—" Annie went on
reverently—"that is, living always very close to Jesus. For if we are
fighting close to His side, and under His banner, then whatever He
orders we shall be ready to do—or whatever He gives us we shall be
ready to take.

"I don't mean," she added, after a pause, "that one wouldn't feel
trouble. My father says that is a mistake. When God sends trouble,
He means it to be trouble. And He means it to bring us near to
Him, that He may comfort us. I don't suppose He can comfort us
till we are 'ready' to have whatever He sends. Some don't learn to
be ready till after the trouble comes. But I should like to learn
beforehand—shouldn't you? I should like to be able, when it comes,
to look straight up, and say, 'Thy will, not mine, be done.' That's
what the Lord Jesus could do, even in the midst of His great terrible
struggle in Gethsemane. He could say, 'Not My will, but Thine.' For all
the while He was ready—truly ready. He could always say from His heart,
'Lo, I come to do Thy will, O God!' And that is what we have to learn
to say."

It seemed strange afterwards to Annie herself, as well as to those who
listened, that she should have spoken just on that particular day in
this particular manner.

The class ended, Annie put away her Bible, set the chairs straight,
and went out into the garden, singing softly. She believed her father
to be at the school, where he usually went every Sunday afternoon. A
favourite Homer rose bush near the garden-gate drew Annie's attention.
She thought she would gather a few buds, and put them on father's study
table, to refresh his eyes when he returned. He had not seemed at all
well that morning; and Annie had almost made up her mind to ask Mr.
Rawdon privately some day soon whether Mr. Wilmot ought not to take a
tonic.

Six pretty pinkish half-open blossoms were in hand, when a movement
near made her look up. "Good afternoon," she said, smiling at the sight
of Archie Stuart. Mrs. Stuart's cottage was in Annie's district, and
Annie knew the mother and son well.

"How is Mrs. Stuart?" she asked, as Archie seemed to hesitate outside
the gate.

Archie's mother was "pretty well," he said.

"Her foot quite recovered?" Annie asked, plucking another rose bud. "Do
you think she would like two or three of these? Come in, and I'll give
them to you."

Archie was much pleased. He stepped inside, letting the gate swing to.

"There!" Annie said, handing him a small bunch. "Tell Mrs. Stuart I am
coming very soon to see her again." Then, with another smile, Annie
inquired, "Has she begun to like Nancy Dunn yet?"

Archie's face fell. "No, Miss," he said. "Not as anybody could help
liking Nancy—"

"No, indeed!" put in Annie.

"But she won't hear one word of me and Nancy having things settled
between us," pursued Archie.

"Then you have to be patient a little longer," said Annie. Between
confidences from Archie, from Mrs. Stuart, and from Nancy, she knew
pretty well all about the matter. "Nobody is the worse for a little
waiting, and I think you are pretty sure about Nancy—are you not?"

"Well, I did speak to her, Miss Wilmot, and to Mrs. Dunn too," admitted
Archie. "For I didn't seem as if I was able to keep in any longer. And
my mother she was in a great taking. But Mrs. Dunn said, and Nancy said
too, that it wasn't to be anything settled until mother was willing.
And it does seem as if she never was going to be willing."

"You have waited a very short time yet, and you and Nancy are both
young," said Annie. "I think you must have patience still; and your
mother has been a good mother, hasn't she? I always notice how very
fond she is of you. I am sure you must want to be a very good son to
her."

"Well, yes—that I do, Miss," assented Archie, though perhaps not so
heartily as Annie wished, for his head was full of Nancy. Then he
inquired: "Is Mr. Wilmot better, please? Mother said I was to be sure
and ask. She does set store by Mr. Wilmot, and no mistake, and it's
worried her to see him so ill lately."

"My father! Why, he has not been ill," said Annie in surprise. "He
seemed tired this morning."

Archie looked at Annie somewhat strangely. He had heard many remarks
lately on the Rectors altered look.

"I am expecting him home from Sunday school directly," pursued Annie.
"So I must go indoors now and be ready for him. Good-bye. I do hope
your mother will soon give way about Nancy. But you have to be patient,
haven't you, till then?"

Annie went back into the house, wondering uneasily what could have made
Archie speak so of her father. She would certainly got hold of Mr.
Rawdon as soon as possible, and beg him to see after Mr. Wilmot.

The study door was shut; but Annie, believing her father to be out,
went straight in, meaning to put the rose buds on his study table.
Her light and quick approach was unheralded. The door gave no warning
creak; and Annie had a noiseless manner of turning handles.

The room proved to be tenanted. Mr. Wilmot lay on the sofa, and beside
him sat Mr. Rawdon, bending somewhat forward, and speaking in distinct
tones—

"As for your fear of hydrophobia—"

These words struck upon Annie's ears; and no trumpet-clang could have
rung out with more startling clearness.

In a moment, the two were aware of her presence, and Mr. Rawdon stopped
short.



CHAPTER XXI.

THE GREAT DREAD!

"WHY, Annie, my child!" the Rector said, raising himself on one elbow,
and greeting her with a smile, in which some veiled anxiety might have
been detected. "We did not hear you coming. Are those roses for me? How
has the class gone to-day?"

Annie could not answer him. She hardly knew what it was that restrained
her to some appearance of calm. That terrible word "Hydrophobia" seemed
to be ringing still through the room, and with it an awful dread had
rushed in upon her. Yet she only stood motionless, holding the back of
a chair with one hand and clutching the rose buds fast in the other.

"I did not go to the school this afternoon," pursued Mr. Wilmot. "The
truth is, I was not feeling quite—well, not quite as I should; so I
took an hour's rest instead."

Annie seemed to hear herself speaking in a hollow distant tone—"And you
sent for Mr. Rawdon?"

"No, I came without being sent for," said Mr. Rawdon. He uttered the
words in a deliberate repressive manner, as if to impress upon Annie
a need for caution. "I was not satisfied with your father's look in
Church this morning."

Then a pause. Annie remained perfectly still, her eyes fixed on
vacancy. All colour had fled from her face. The two gentlemen exchanged
meaning glances.

"Come, my child—sit down here, and tell me about your class," said Mr.
Wilmot.

He made a little space on the sofa, and Annie went to it mechanically,
but not to talk. In another moment, she had buried her face on his
shoulder, and was clinging to him in a passionate wordless agony.

For two or three minutes there was silence, which nobody liked to
break. The brisk ticking of the clock sounded clearly; but to Annie
that sound was lost in the rapid fluctuating throb of something nearer
at hand, something fast yet broken. She could not see her father's
face, but Mr. Rawdon could, and his hand took firm hold of Annie's arm.

"Miss Wilmot! Stop this, please. You must get up."

There was a sound of warning in the tone. Annie obeyed, still as one in
a maze. It seemed to her that the whole world was suddenly changed with
this new fearful dread. Then she saw her father's ghastly look, and
she knew that something must be very wrong. He could not speak—could
not breathe. Mr. Rawdon had moved away to the table, to pour out some
liquid into a small glass, and now he was administering it, holding up
Mr. Wilmot. The breathless struggle lessened slowly; and then a fresh
fear came over Annie. Had she done him harm? With that thought she was
herself again.

"It is going off now—not much this time, I hope," Mr. Rawdon said
cheerfully. "Keep still, Wilmot. Don't try to talk yet. Miss Wilmot and
I will arrange about the evening."

Annie could only look at the doctor imploringly, and Mr. Wilmot's hand
drew her back to her former position—except that she sat upright, not
leaning against him.

"Now," Mr. Rawdon said, with a glance at Annie and a movement as if to
leave the room. But Annie could not stir. The restraining arm around
her might be weak, yet it held her fast. Mr. Rawdon had taken one step
towards the door, and he paused hesitatingly.

"The fact is, Wilmot, any kind of agitation is bad for you, in the
present state of your heart," he said. "Miss Wilmot and I are used to
each other. Better let us have our little talk in another room."

"No," said Mr. Wilmot gently. "Here, please. It will distress me less.
Annie must be good and calm."

Mr. Rawdon took a chair, by no means with the air of a man convinced.

Then another pause. Mr. Wilmot's eyes were on his child lovingly; and
Annie could be seen to draw one or two deep breaths, as if mastering
herself with difficulty.

"Yes," she said at length. "Please tell me."

"I will see some one, and arrange for the service this evening." Mr.
Rawdon spoke deliberately. "I have already warned your father that he
must consent to do less work.

"I am ready," Mr. Wilmot said, in a quiet voice.

"The fact is, Miss Wilmot—the fact is, your father has had lately a
severe return of certain troublesome heart symptoms, from which he
suffered a good deal about two years ago. You will probably remember."

"Yes—I remember," Annie found herself saying. "He had to take a long
holiday—and—But—but that is not—not—"

"It is essential that he should greatly lessen work now. I tell you
both honestly, I don't like these attacks; and this is the third, I
believe, within a fortnight."

Annie looked bewildered, even while scarcely taking in the full sense
of his words. She could only feel that something more terrible lay
behind, something not yet touched upon. But for her father's sake, she
dared not ask questions, till she should see Mr. Rawdon alone.

Doubtless, Mr. Rawdon too purposed putting off until then the needful
telling. Mr. Wilmot was of a different mind.

"Annie, my child, did you happen to hear what Mr. Rawdon and I were
talking about when you came in?"

"Yes, father," she whispered.

"That comes of stealing in upon folks without warning," said Mr. Rawdon.

"What did you hear?" Mr. Wilmot asked.

Annie hid her face in her hands.

"Wilmot, I don't like this for you," the doctor said.

"I must risk it. What did you hear, my darling?"

She lifted her face, and said in a voice quiet as his own:

"Father, Mr. Rawdon will tell me, please—not you." She grew paler:
turning to the doctor—"Was father—? Did the dog—?"

"No, not bitten; but he had a touch from the creature's tooth. A mere
scratch," said Mr. Rawdon. "Of course the slightest scratch should
be avoided. He came to me, however, at once, and I burnt the place
out—burnt deeply. I believe he managed to conceal from you that
anything was the matter with his wrist."

"Wrist!" Annie repeated the word, and Mr. Wilmot drew up his sleeve.

"That is the scar of the burn," said Mr. Rawdon. "The scratch itself
was a mere nothing. The wound healed slowly but thoroughly, as you may
see. My own belief is that the remedy was prompt and complete enough to
ensure safety."

But Annie knew that these words did not imply certainty. She sat silent
once more, hardly thinking, but rather weighed down by a dull pressure
of misery.

"And I was never told!" she murmured at length.

"There was no need," said Mr. Rawdon. "The less said and thought about
the matter, the better. Now I must be off, Wilmot, to arrange for your
evening's work being done by somebody else. You may leave that in my
hands. Keep very quiet, and don't exert yourself. I shall see you early
to-morrow."

He said good-bye to Mr. Wilmot, but not to Annie, and turned away.
Annie knew that she was to accompany him out of the room, and she stood
up, her father's arm relaxing to set her free.

He said only, "Come back to me, Annie."



CHAPTER XXII.

LIFE LESSONS.

"NOW, remember," said Mr. Rawdon authoritatively, having stepped
with Annie into the drawing-room, where he stood pulling on his
gloves—"remember, Miss Wilmot, the less you dwell on that thought, and
the less you allow your father to dwell on it, the better for him."

"But how can I help—?" sobbed the poor girl, for the moment entirely
overcome.

"You must help it. Self-control in this matter is essential for your
father's sake. It is not merely a question of talking. He reads every
turn of your face, and if he sees you unlike yourself, sad and unhappy,
you will act as a perpetual reminder of that which he ought to forget
as much as possible."

"I will try hard—indeed I will," said Annie brokenly. "But if—if—"

"No; you are not to indulge in that 'if.' Understand me, Miss
Wilmot. Your father is not suffering in the remotest degree from any
premonitory symptoms of hydrophobia."

"You are quite—quite sure?"

"Perfectly sure. There is not a sign of anything of the kind about him.
Some weeks ago I confess I did feel anxious for a time. He was under
great depression, and living in a constant expectation of ill results.
You must have remarked his depression. That has all passed off now. I
cannot say he has entirely lost the expectation—perhaps I should rather
say the distinct sense of what might come. But it is not depression,
and it is not fear. I was wrong to use that word. He faces the matter
in a wonderfully manly and Christian spirit. I wish he could banish the
subject from his mind; but no doubt the present state of his health
acts upon him, and lessens the power of self-restraint."

"His heart?" Annie strove to say.

"Yes—the mischief is there." Mr. Rawdon spoke in a grave tone. "I was
not satisfied two years ago—but he seemed so far to rally from the
weakness, that one had almost ceased to recall it. No doubt there has
been mischief long brewing, which must sooner or later have declared
itself. The strain and agitation of this summer have only hastened
matters."

"But he will be better—he will get stronger by-and-by," said Annie
imploringly. "When this dreadful year is over, and we are sure—"

"Yes, I hope so." Mr. Rawdon's voice was still more grave. "We must
check his doing too much."

"If he were to get away for change? Could he not take his holiday
sooner?"

"That has been discussed already. It is a difficult question," Mr.
Rawdon said thoughtfully. "The fact is, I don't like his going far
with only you—and he seems scarcely in a state for much travelling.
If change could mean full occupation of mind—but too much leisure for
thought is not at all desirable. Perhaps a moderate amount of work
is better at present. But we shall see. You must try, for his sake,
to take a cheerful view of things, and do your best to keep up his
spirits. Good-bye now. I will look in to-morrow. But mind, he is not to
count himself a regular invalid."

"No," said Annie.

She found it hard to respond, hard to lift her eyes—the trouble which
had come upon her seemed so very terrible. She dreaded going to the
study to meet her father's look. When Mr. Rawdon was gone, she turned
mechanically into the dining-room, and stood there in an attitude of
hopeless despondency.

Only half-an-hour or so earlier she had sat just here, a light-hearted
girl still, speaking to other light-hearted girls of troubles that
might one day come, and how they should be borne. What had she known
then of trouble?

Yet her words had been true, and she knew it. But she could not feel or
see their truth now. She could only bow her head beneath the blow.

"I was dumb, I opened not my mouth: because Thou didst it."

But she could not reach beyond "dumbness." She could not look up and
say, "It is well."

After all, was there any need—as yet? The blow had only just fallen:
and He who sent it knew its weight, knew her weakness. Annie had only
just entered the School of Sorrow, and He who called her into it could
pity her faltering steps with all a mother's tenderness.

She had to go back to her father. That recollection came soon, and
Annie yielded to its call. Leaving the dining-room, where she had stood
alone with clasped hands and drooping head, she crept thither.

And she had to look bright, to seem cheerful, to wear a face of calm
unconsciousness! How could she, with this weight upon her heart?

"I have been looking for you," her father said. "Come here, my child."

Annie did as he told her. She knelt down beside the couch, and laid her
face against him.

"That is the right attitude for both of us, isn't it?" said Mr. Wilmot
softly.

"Father—" Annie tried to say, hardly knowing what she meant to utter.
But the broken word was taken up in quiet accents—

"Father, Thy will, not ours, be done."

Annie shivered; and he spoke again—

"'The King's servants said unto the King, "Behold, Thy servants are
ready to do whatsoever my Lord the King shall appoint."'"

Another little break.

"It is not for us to choose, nor for us to resist. He has His own
mighty and loving purposes. We have but to be ready—ready to do—ready
to bear—'whatsoever' Christ our King may appoint."

"But we may pray—pray—" she sobbed.

"Yes, pray and plead as earnestly as you will; only in the spirit
always of Christ's prayer—'Thy will—not mine.'"

"O father, I can't say that, and I thought it would be so easy if
trouble came—only not this trouble."

"Poor little Annie! My poor child! Yes, it is always so with us, 'only
not this!' But He understands and pities. No pity was ever like His
pity. He will teach you in His own good time. He knows how, for He has
gone through all the worst of it Himself—worse agony than any of us can
ever have to bear. And it is enough meanwhile to sit at His feet, to
hear His voice. No more blessed position than that! He is so merciful.
He doesn't hurry us, like man, in the lesson learning."

Mr. Wilmot spoke slowly, in brief sentences. "No, I am not hurting
myself. But I can speak from experience, Annie. I have learnt much this
summer—much of His exceeding gentleness. Where He lays His hand most
heavily, He brings the sweetest balm."

"If only you had told me, father! To bear it alone!"

"Alone! I had my Master's presence."

Annie looked up, but she could not face his smile. Her head sank anew.

"There was the battling for awhile—not easy, but close to His side. I
seem to have reached beyond the battling lately—to a quiet spot. One of
His green pastures, I suppose. He gives rest when it is needful. But my
child need not go through all that I went through. It is not necessary.
That dread is over now. Mr. Rawdon was mistaken. I have no fear."

"He said so," she whispered.

"No fear, and no expectation. For some weeks I did expect it,—to be
called Home by a fiery chariot. Not now. I think it will not be—that!"

She might have read his full meaning, but she did not, wrapped up as
she was in the one dread.

He lifted Annie's face between his hands, and kissed it.

"Now, my little woman, we must obey orders. It does not take very much
to bring on irregular action of the heart, and I had better not risk
another attack of breathlessness. We have talked long enough on sad
subjects. Try to forget what you have heard, and leave all in the hands
of One who knows what is best for us. I want you to put those rose buds
in water, or the poor little things will die. Then you shall tell me
about your class, and about Nancy Dunn."

Annie rose at once to obey. Somehow she seemed to catch a reflection of
her father's calm. She knew that she must keep up, for his sake.



CHAPTER XXIII.

GOOD ADVICE.

"GOOD afternoon, Mrs. Stuart. Fine day! Well—and how's the world
getting along with you?" asked Mrs. Mason.

Mrs. Stuart looked as if the world were not getting along with her at
all. She gave Mrs. Mason scant welcome.

"My fire's took to smoking like mad; smoked me out, if I didn't want
to be turned into a dried herring," said Mrs. Mason. "So I thought I'd
just look in here for an hour, and ask you for a neighbourly cup of
tea."

Mrs. Stuart rose to her full length, like a big snake rearing itself on
end, and stalked like a pair of huge compasses to the fireplace.

"I've brought my knitting," said Mrs. Mason. Forthwith she pulled out a
half-made stocking, and set to work upon it.

Mrs. Stuart stalked back again.

"The kettle don't seem to be of a mind to boil yet. Kettles are
uncommon perverse articles," said Mrs. Mason. "I'm in no sort of a
hurry, so it don't matter—not in the very least. But perhaps you're
expecting company, in which case I'd best make myself scarce, seeing
I'm not come by invitation."

Mrs. Mason knitted and smiled as she talked, showing no bodily
inclination to budge.

"I'm not expecting no company," said Mrs. Stuart, with the intonation
of a deeply injured woman.

"How's Archie to-day?" asked Mrs. Mason.

"He's well enough," said Mrs. Stuart.

"Fine-looking young fellow he does grow, to be sure! I don't know a
finer in the neighbourhood!"

Mrs. Stuart looked glum.

"And I can tell you, other folks think so as well as me. Why, there's
the Dunns!"

Mrs. Stuart's wrath exploded suddenly. "Don't talk to me of them
Dunns!" she cried.

"Why, dear me!" uttered Mrs. Mason. "And they such friends of Archie's!"

Mrs. Stuart couldn't sit still. She had nothing particular to do,
standing up, but she marched to the dresser, and carried off two plates
to a cupboard. Then she rubbed away vigorously at a spot of grease on
the table. Then she poked the fire.